Truth	Predicted	Review
1	1	john von neumann , progenitor of the computer age and critically important mathematician on the manhattan project , pointed out long ago that there is a great way to explore the cosmos , even without recourse to faster-than light travel . 
you send out self-replicating robot ships which explore and radio back information . 
it may take decades , centuries , or millennia , but it can be done with achievable technology , and doesn't require a magical faster-than-light drive . 
in the fifties , british astronomer fred hoyle improved on this plan by suggesting that it would be better to radio plans for a complex computer and a program for it ; any civilization capable of receiving the transmission could build the computer , which would then engage in a real-time dialog with the aliens , exchanging information and technologies , and hopefully arranging to send back what it had learned . 
about thirty-five years ago , the bbc contracted with astronomer/writer fred hoyle and writer frank elliot to create the scripts for a mini-series called a for andromeda . 
afa concerned the reception of a hoyle transmission , the construction of a huge computer , the computer's analysis of life on earth , and its creation of an apparently human intermediary to facilitate communication . 
she was played with ethereally inhuman perfection by the then-unknown julie christie . 
audience response was so strong that the bbc contracted for a sequel , andromeda breakthrough , which played to equally high ratings . 
dennis feldman , whose previous credits include the golden child , has never been noted for coherent , well-structured movie scripts ; they start out great , and then disintegrate into a morass of chase and action , mitigated only by the presence of the obligatory beautiful girl . 
feldman writes good scenes , but has no idea how to tell a story or write a movie , even with a previous version to use as a model . 
now , in species , we have a mundane retread of the andromeda plotline , derailed by a preoccupation with removing the clothes from the leading lady and further ruined by a mediocre attempt to emulate several recent horror films in terms of splatter , gore , and chases . 
species features ben kingsley , who is completely wasted in a badly-written portrayal of a feebly amoral scientist . 
forest whitaker and alfred molina are also served poorly by the script . 
the species story is relatively simple ; we have been radioing information about ourselves and our dna out into space since 1971 , and have been receiving answers for two years . 
 ( note that , in the 1970's , we really didn't know diddly about the human genome structure , and were hardly in a position to radio out a set of blueprints for human beings . 
even today , all we can do is give information about dna and how it works , not a copy of human dna , because we don't have it analyzed yet . ) 
the answers we get from the unknown alien source are plans for recreating a member of the alien race , and doctor xavier finch , played by ben kingsley , is placed in charge of the attempt . 
the script begins to go off the deep end at this point , when the result is a beautiful young girl who can shape-shift into any of several ugly alien life forms . 
the first half of the film has something to offer , as " sil , " the alien girl , struggles with her multi-form existence , changing from beauty to lizard to giant cockroach and back again , all while trying to understand her own place in the cosmos . 
she seems oddly knowledgeable about human society , with glaring gaps where her social skills should be . 
her instincts are to mate and procreate , and some of the best scenes deal with her attempts in this area . 
escaping from her birth laboratory in utah , sil is pursued by a team of drafted civilians with orders to find her and kill her . 
she goes on an eating binge , spins herself a cocoon , and emerges as an adult , played by natasha henstridge , who goes a long way toward re-creating the sheerly inhuman beauty julie christie achieved in 1960 . 
the pursuers : michael madsen is an assassin/exterminator ; forrest whitaker is a convenient empath/psychic , just as though the u . s . government actually had such people on call . 
neither is able to do much with the writing and directing provided . 
whitaker's role seems to be aimed at making whitaker a male copy of star trek : the next generation's " counselor cleavage . " 
the other members of the strike team are played by marg helgenberger and alfred molina . 
kingsley and whitaker are both consummate professionals , too good to not work to the best of their abilities ; but the performances donaldson elicited from the rest of the cast are disappointing and bland , and it is apparent that the direction was a bit weak . 
h . r . giger's design for the main form of the alien creature is actually a bit boring when we finally get to see it , although previous digital effects were done quite smoothly . 
the main fault of species is lack of originality ; it starts out with a wonderful , albeit borrowed , premise , and then doesn't live up to it . 
all we get are chase scenes and a few nice sex scenes , with a few monsters tossed in . 
there is no buildup of tension and suspense , no climax worthy of the name ; species is just a sequence of " scare " scenes stuck together . 
the movie is carried by its chase and sex scenes , but not rescued by them . 
on the other hand , as an exercise in sci-fi action/ adventure , it certainly beats the ichor out of judge dredd . 
species earns an extra rating point or two for having ben kingsley and natasha henstridge on board , but by and large , it's fun only for those of us who really like this sort of thing . 
my personal rating is three stars , but knock one or two of those off if you don't enjoy pretty unclothed ladies and bloodthirsty alien monsters . 
mpaa classification : r ( violence , gore , nudity , sex , language ) 
stars : ben kingsley , michael madsen , forest whitaker , alfred molina , marg helgenberger , natasha henstridge directed by : roger donaldson produced by : frank mancuso jr . and dennis feldman typed by : dennis feldman cinematography : andrzej bartkowiak music : christopher young run time : 108 minutes aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 from mgm , opens 7 july 1995
0	1	" meg ryan is irresistible in the comedy that celebrates sisterhood ! , " 
screams the television ads for " hanging up , " disastrously written by real-life sisters delia and nora ephron and sloppily directed by diane keaton . 
make me laugh again ! 
not only is " hanging up " misadvertised , since the film wholeheartedly focuses on middle sister meg ryan and gives her two co-stars , lisa kudrow and diane keaton , little more than extended cameos , but they don't actually come together until the final ten to fifteen minutes . 
and we are supposed to believe their strong bond , and smile in the last scene when they rekindle their rocky relationship , despite them being apart for the majority of the running time ? 
excuse me , again , while i almost bust a gut at that truly delusional notion . 
eve marks ( meg ryan ) is the middle mozzell sister , still living in the california town where she grew up , and with a husband ( adam arkin ) and pre-teen son ( jesse james ) . 
her elderly , wisecracking father , lou ( walter matthau , in his brightest performance in years ) has just recently been put into the hospital , in the final stages of what i assume is alzheimer's ( even though the film never enlightens us on exactly what is wrong with him ) . 
while eve's relationship with her mother ( cloris leachman ) is nearly nonexistent , since she ran out on lou and her children years ago , she has had her fair share of up's and down's with lou , who used to be an alcoholic . 
her older sister is georgia ( diane keaton ) , an editor for the self-titled magazine , " georgia , " while maddy ( lisa kudrow ) is the youngest , a soap opera actress . 
interestingly , their professions are given , but we not once ever see them working at their jobs , or , for that matter , learn much of anything about them . 
maddy , georgia , and eve do not see each other much anymore , their adult lives gradually causing them to drift apart , but they do manage to consistently talk on the phone to one another . 
and they talk . 
and talk . 
and talk . . . 
in fact , the telephone is the major star of the film , even more so than ryan , as it appears in virtually every scene of this interminable 92-minute catastrophe that feels like its three hours long . 
if you are able to get through the opening half-hour , in which phones ring so much you feel like jumping through the screen and taking a sledgehammer to them , you will surely survive the rest . 
the question is , who would want to subject themselves to this resolutely irritating , self-involved pat-on-the-back ? 
how could a comedy-drama that has the star-power of meg ryan , lisa kudrow , and diane keaton be so very bad in so many different ways ? 
issues from the past involving the possible jealousy each has had for one of the others is fleetingly brought up , but the film isn't mature enough to deal with such a thing in a thoughtful manner , and since we learn next to nothing about their childhood , it is a lost cause that comes off as nothing more than an afterthought . 
also , it is expected that the viewer quickly catch on to the tricky dynamic that the three sisters have with one another , but no dynamic metamorphosizes . 
and when they do reunite in the finale , their whole consanguinity is reduced to a repulsively annoying three-minute scene in which they argue like little children . 
you can see the impending death coming a mile away , and it conveniently occurs in the next scene , so that the three can quickly come to terms with themselves , and with each other . 
you think to yourself : " the only thing left for them to do is have a playful food-fight , " and like clockwork , it also occurs by the end credits . 
meg ryan is a versatile actress ( look no further than 1998's " hurlyburly " or 1994's " when a man loves a woman " ) , despite her various detractors who stubbornly believe all she can do is romantic comedies . 
with " hanging up , " the only thing she needs to do is completely sever her filmmaking ties with nora ephron , a writer/director/hack who shouldn't be allowed to work in hollywood again after this big-budget , high-profile debacle . 
even if she knew what she was making was not exactly up to par in the quality department , she nonetheless is very good , and the two scenes that work , flashbacks to christmas 1988 , when she had a heartbreaking run-in with her mother , and to halloween 1993 , when lou crashed her son's birthday party in a drunken stupor , are effective because of the realism ryan brings to the situations . 
diane keaton , as georgia , is better as an actress than a director here , but that is a wildly feeble compliment . 
what is more than a little far-fetched is that keaton is distinctly older than ryan and kudrow , although in the very brief glimpses we get at them as children , she is no more than five years ryan's senior . 
yeah , right . 
lastly , poor lisa kudrow has been wasted once again in a big-screen venture , after her even more thin role in 1999's " analyze this . " 
kudrow isn't given enough time to create a full personality with maddy , so it isn't her fault she doesn't register until a few quiet moments sprinkled throughout where she is actually blessed with being given dialogue . 
if anything , though , kudrow is a real talent , and i anxiously await the next time she is given a role more deserving of her time , as in her brilliantly nuanced , oscar-caliber work in 1998's " the opposite of sex . " 
if you are a fan of kudrow's ( and who isn't ? ) , do yourself a favor and rent this gem that puts more good use to kudrow in sixty seconds than " hanging up " does in its entirety . 
as eve's hardworking husband , adam arkin is , predictably , squandered with a role that gives him next to nothing to do , until a subplot reveals itself midway through , only to never be mentioned again . 
cloris leachman , as with ryan and matthau , makes a small , but noticeable impression with her , albeit , very brief appearance , while edie mcclurg , as a rosy-cheeked woman lou had an affair with in the christmas 1988 flashback , manages one of the few laughs in this otherwise joyless production . 
nearly all the emotions displayed within " hanging up " are patently manufactured , and despite the movie wanting the viewer to care about the characters , aside from eve , why would you want to when they are all spoiled brats ? 
if , for some bizarre , " twilight zone " -type of reason , you find yourself in a movie theater showing this film , my suggestion would be to hang up on it before the opening credits are over . 
saying it is a waste of time is an understatement of epic proportions .
1	1	in " the sweet hereafter , " writer/director atom egoyan takes us beyond the tragedy of death into the tragedy of living . 
he shows us how it isn't dying that hurts , but rather the pain of living in the hereafter of death , and dealing with the loss and grief that it brings . 
on a cold winter day in a small , isolated town in british columbia , a school bus full of children slides off the highway and onto a frozen lake , where it cracks through the ice and sinks . 
fourteen children die , and numerous others are hurt . 
for the residents of this small town , all of whose children were on that bus , it is an earth-shattering event that resolutely alters their lives . 
they have always relied on each other in the past to deal with heartache and pain , but it seems that this tragedy is more than they can handle . 
alberta and risa walker , who own a local motel and lost their child in the accident , hire an attorney named mitchell stephens ( ian holm ) to bring a lawsuit against someone , anyone for responsibility . 
the bus driver , dolores driscoll ( gabrielle rose ) , is a kindly woman who loved the children and , although she lives with a burden of guilt , is not held responsible for the accident . 
the bus seems to have simply slipped on some ice , and there was nothing should could do to prevent it . 
however , according to stephens , there are no " accidents " in life , and someone will pay for this tragedy , whether that be the manufacturer of the bus or the guardrail the bus broke through . 
he goes through the town , approaching the parents who have lost children , asking them to join the class action suit and find vent for their anger . 
and , for his work , stephens will receive one-third of the settlement money . 
however , it is immediately apparent that stephens has little or no interest in the money . 
he is driven by something else , something deeper that he shares in common with the grieving parents . 
he has lost a child , too , but not in the same manner . 
his daughter , zoe ( caerthan banks ) , who once almost died in his arms as a young child after a spider bite , has been in and out of drug re-hab clinics and detox stations for ten years . 
she calls him on an irregular basis , begging him for money , but refusing to tell him what she needs it for . 
 " i don't know who i'm taking to , " he tells her . 
in his mind , his daughter is dead . 
the lawsuit is , to stephens , not only a way to mend the town's pain , but also his own . 
however , not everyone in town wants it to happen . 
billy ansell ( bruce greenwood ) , who was driving behind the bus when the accident happened and lost two children , wants nothing to do with it . 
he has already lost his wife , and he buries his grief in an affair with a married woman . 
he doesn't want to talk about the accident , and he sees the lawsuit as nothing more than the unnecessary opening of old wounds . 
to him , the town should be able to take care of its own pain , and it doesn't need outsiders like stephens getting in the way . 
central to " the sweet hereafter " is the tale of nicole burnell ( sarah polley ) , a teenage girl who dreams of being a singer before the accident turned her into " a wheelchair girl , " as she puts it . 
aside from stephens , nicole is the most complex character in the film , and it is she who ultimately decides the fate of the town and how the lawsuit will turn out . 
it is also her sad , haunted voice that we often hear on the soundtrack , reading robert browning's poem about the pied piper , and how when he led all the town's children away , one was left behind because he was crippled . 
obviously , nicole is that child , and she feels somehow betrayed that the rest of the town's children left her alone by dying in the wreck . 
her situation is further complicated because she is involved in a loving , but incestuous relationship with her father ( tom mccamus ) . 
there is only one , fleeting scene that suggests this relationship , but it is somehow tied into the final act of the film . 
of all the storylines in " the sweet hereafter , " this is the most complicated and unresolved , although its implications stretch throughout the entirety of the film . 
egoyan knows that the kinds of questions he brings up have no simple answers -- if any at all -- and he doesn't condescend to the audience by trying to neatly wrap it up . 
what egoyan has done in " the sweet hereafter " is really nothing short of miraculous . 
in his adaptation of the novel by russell banks , he has made a deeply moving film about a lawyer by transcending the pettiness of law and driving headlong into the deeper meaning of what is loss , and how pitiful monetary and material possessions are when compared to human life . 
egoyan has always been a talented , but distant and cerebral filmmaker whose work suffered only in that it felt so cold . 
 " the sweet hereafter " is quite the opposite ; egoyan's stylistic and narrative structures work brilliantly to heighten the impact of the natural emotion , and draw the audience into the tragedy . 
 " the sweet hereafter " seems to contain the combined emotional impact that all his other films lacked . 
the film is filled with beautiful , subtle performances from all the actors , especially ian holm as the lawyer and sarah polley as the sad child who was left behind . 
the beautiful , roving camerawork by paul sarossy and the haunting , melodic musical score by mychael danna ( both previous egoyan collaborators ) give the film a visual and aural cohesiveness with the thematic elements . 
like his earlier films , egoyan weaves together multiple storylines that form a blanketing whole . 
he works with time as a fluid substance , shifting back and forth between the past , the distant past , and the present with effortless ease . 
the actual bus wreck itself doesn't happen until midway through the film , but by that time the event has built up so much emotion that egoyan can film it from a distance with no graphic detail , and still have it carry great , devastating weight . 
because human life has become such a cheap commodity in movies , it is astounding that egoyan can convey so much heartbreak in such simple , direct terms . 
certainly one of the best films of 1997 , " the sweet hereafter " is a deeply rewarding , mystifying , and ultimately human film .
0	0	several days after having seen this movie , i'm still trying to determine what director christopher guest , a man whose sense of humor i usually appreciate , found funny in either the concept or the execution of almost heroes . 
this is a dreadful motion picture ? a lowbrow example of period piece comedy with terrible production values and an exceptionally poor laughs-to-jokes ratio . 
there's a kind of desperation in the movie's approach to humor that reveals the film makers' uncertainty about how entertaining the material is ; the manic style betrays itself as a last-ditch attempt to hide the flaws of a failed script . 
the premise doesn't sound especially amusing to begin with ? almost heroes tells the tale of two explorers , the effeminate leslie edwards ( matthew perry ) and the uncouth bartholomew hunt ( chris farley ) , who are racing lewis and clark on the trip to the american northwest . 
edwards and hunt are accompanied by the kinds of weirdoes we find in road movies ( albeit of the early-19th century variety ) , including a frenchman named guy fontenot who claims to speak hundreds of languages ( none of which prove to be useful ) , a pretty indian maiden who turns into the obligatory love interest , and a bizarre man who suffers a series of debilitating injuries . 
along the way , the intrepid explorers encounter bears , bald eagles , aging native american warriors , and a conquistador named hildago ( kevin dunn ) who raves about his beautiful hair . 
the explorers' trek takes them through forests , across the snow-capped rocky mountains , and over a waterfall . 
this setup leads to a lot of shouting , a great deal of lunacy , and very few laughs . 
farley engages in his usual shtick of falling down and bellowing , but , aside from an momentarily diverting confrontation with an eagle , his heart doesn't seem to be in it . 
matthew perry , one of the stars of tv's friends ( who had some modest success in the romantic comedy , fools rush in ) is badly miscast . 
as a foil for farley and an antidote to his runaway energy , perry lacks the necessary edge of the proverbial straight man . 
i'm not a big fan of david spade , and i didn't like tommy boy , but at least he and farley worked well together . 
as far as the supporting players go , none of them makes more than a fleeting impression . 
eugene levy is wasted , and kevin dunn is about as interesting here as he is in godzilla . 
frankly , it's a disappointment to see something this dumb and ugly come from christopher guest , the brilliant comic force behind such films as this is spinal tap , the big picture , and waiting for guffman . 
although guest gets the costumes right , this nearly-inconsequential success is no substitute for the weak script and unfunny execution . 
the special effects , such as they are , are execrable . 
for an example of some really poor blue screen work , look at the scenes where the characters are shooting the rapids ( they're obviously getting buckets of water thrown on them ) and where farley is being carried off by an eagle . 
even though farley didn't have the most stellar of acting careers , he doesn't deserve the kind of unfortunate epitaph offered by almost heroes . 
while some of the more outrageous attempts at humor may coax a few guffaws from 12-year old boys , the level of comedy in almost heroes falls far below the level of sophomoric . 
farley fans who see this film as a way to say goodbye should be commended for their loyalty , since it takes real stamina to stay seated for the full running length of this cinematic torture session .
0	0	vegas vacation is the fourth film starring chevy chase and beverly d'angelo as the heads of the hapless griswold family . 
as with the other three films , their two children , rusty and audrey , are played by a revolving series of actors . 
this time ethan embry and marisol nichols fill the roles . 
also back , is cousin eddie ( randy quaid ) , the slob relative who seems to bring problems wherever he goes . 
in vegas vacation clark griswold ( chase ) decides to take the family on vacation to las vegas so that he and wife ellen ( d'angelo ) can renew their wedding vows . 
it is at this point when comedy is supposed to ensue . 
apparently the filmmakers thought that putting the griswolds into las vegas would be so funny on its own that they wouldn't bother to write any jokes into the script . 
at least that's the way it looks when watching this turkey . 
about half way through vegas vacation i began to have serious doubts as to whether there would actually be a single laugh in the entire film , since there had been none up to that point . 
by the end of the movie i had actually snickered a couple of times , and i had smiled at a couple of gags . 
i might add that none of the funny ( and i use the term loosely ) moments came as a result of anything chase , d'angelo or quaid were involved in . 
they might as well have stayed home for as much as they contributed to this film . 
the two best things in this movie were ethan embry and marisol nichols as the griswold kids , who manage to have a couple of their own adventures . 
rusty becomes a vegas high roller , providing most of the film's best moments . 
every time chase and quaid were involved in a gag , it just made it more and more apparent that they should have stopped this series after the third film . 
which brings me to the best moment of the film . 
the griswolds are driving down the highway and holiday road ( the theme from the original vacation ) begins to play . 
christie brinkley and her red ferrari ( also from the first movie ) drive by . 
it was a cute moment , but all it really did was remind me just how funny the first film had been , and just how far that this series has fallen . 
too bad .
0	0	bad movies described as " a swift descent into sinful pleasure , decay , and debauchery " are hard to watch . 
bad 2000's movies that resemble bad 1980s films are even harder to watch . 
shadow hours falls into the latter category , a mish-mashed train wreck of b-movie actors ( including michael dorn , aka star trek's worf ) , an uninteresting plot , vain attempts at capitalizing on the " underground " scenes of seedy los angeles , and really , really bad directing and horrendous music video-esque ballistic editing that was taught to me in film school right before i decided to drop out . 
the film revolves around the life of michael holloway ( balthazar getty ) who is trying to restart his life with his one-dimensional wife chloe ( rebecca gayheart ) after a nasty bout of drug and alcohol addictions . 
michael takes a job of working the graveyard shift at the local gas station and is bombarded by the ugliness and weirdness of the nightlife of l . a . one night , he meets a strange gent named stuart ( mr . buckaroo banzai , peter weller ) . 
he drives a porsche , smokes french cigarettes , and drones on about life , eventually coaxing mike into exploring the " underbelly " of l . a . together , a tour of punk bars , s&m clubs , and bare-knuckle fights . 
the film then throws in a murder mystery with a cop played peter greene , acting like he wants to get the chance at a reprisal of his role in the mask 2 . the film then simply dissolves into a cheap rip-off of dante's inferno mixed with an old stephen j . cannell television pilot . 
the pace of the film is jarring and utterly without focus . 
other horrors include the endless montages of people pumping gas and the charlie sheen , johnny depp , richard grieco-esque acting of balthazar getty . 
peter weller clearly knows his career is completely gone and doesn't give two shits about it . 
and after the cheap exploitation of bondage clubs , dance clubs , and brothels - damn , isn't anyone safe any more from the ugly eye of hollywood ! ? 
way back in 1984 , a great but crazy director named abel ferrara made his worse film and called it fear city . 
shadow hours reminds me of an almost perfect sequel . 
director/writer : isaac eaton producers : peter alevey , andrea mia , shon greenblatt , balthazar getty starring : balthazar getty , peter weller , rebecca gayheart , peter greene , frederic forrest , brad douriff , michael dorn
1	1	a cinematic version of one of john irving's novels is always cause for celebration even if , as in the case of " simon birch , " the treatment is merely " suggested by , " rather than strictly based on , the book . 
suggested means that irving , author of the acclaimed " the world according to garp , " sold the rights to his novel " a prayer for owen meany " to the disney machine for $1 million , but wouldn't grant them permission to use either the title or any of the character names . 
that's an odd decision--irving claims it's to protect both himself and the novel--but it's one that doesn't unduly harm the finished product . 
irving's books are rich and complex works , full of intriguing , colorful characters . 
 " a prayer for owen meany " is no exception ; it tells the story of an unusual boy--called simon birch in the film version--who is uncommonly small in stature and possesses a high-pitched falsetto voice , " like strangled mice . " 
simon believes himself to be " god's instrument , " placed on this earth to somehow effect god's plan . 
simon is played by ian michael smith , who suffers from a rare enzyme disorder known as morquio syndrome which , among other things , prevents bones , ligaments , and joints from developing normally . 
smith's debilitating disease makes him an obvious physical choice for " simon birch " ; however , the producers unwisely favored form over function--smith's acting abilities are limited at best . 
another drawback is that in the book , simon's condition is described the way irving describes any of his characters--in careful , loving detail . 
watching " simon birch , " however , creates a different feeling altogether ; the audience is forced into a voyeuristic relationship with the character , surely something irving would not have intended . 
simon himself tends to be too cute and irritating , a combination of smith's rookie status as an actor and the precocious one-liners he's forced to deliver , courtesy mark steven johnson , the film's director and screenwriter . 
fortunately , simon birch isn't the real star of the film that bears his name . 
simon is more of a catalyst , allowing his co-stars to shape the story , and the actors who fill those roles to turn in outstanding supporting performances , saving the film from an obsequious , manipulative destiny . 
first and foremost is joseph mazzello ( " jurassic park " ) , who is nothing less than remarkable as simon's best friend , joe . 
mazzello turns in a wonderfully layered performance for a 14 year old , ripe with laughter , pain , and tears ; he is certainly an emerging talent . 
ashley judd positively beams in her role as rebecca , joe's single mother , and oliver platt is warm and tender as her boyfriend , ben . 
david strathairn and jan hooks play the town's reverend and sunday school teacher respectively and their contributions uphold the high standards set by the others . 
there's even a surprising yet effective uncredited cameo performance from . . . 
well , that would be telling . 
perhaps " suggested by " the novel is the appropriate way to go after all , since " simon birch " only focuses on one chapter , one year , of simon's extraordinary life . 
the film also changes the book's ending to one that is more melodramatic , yet necessary given simon's lot . 
the flavor of irving's original novel remains , however--the passions , friendships , and insecurities that come with a change of seasons to the little community of gravestown , maine , and the engaging oddballs , both big and small , who reside there .
1	1	the verdict : spine-chilling drama from horror maestro stephen king , featuring an outstanding , oscar-winning performance from kathy bates . 
geez , french and saunders had a field day when they set to work on parodying this ! 
sorry , non-british readers may not be familiar with french and saunders - my apologies . 
the pair are british comediennes ( jennifer saunders later went on to become edina monsoon in " absolutely fabulous " ) , who did a series of film spoofs a few years back , including alien , the exorcist and misery . 
needless to say , amidst her chucklesome impersonation of kathy bates ( the resemblance was quite uncanny ! ) , dawn french got pretty nasty with her sledgehammer when in reach of jennifer saunder's legs ! 
but despite the lingering memory of their sketch , and although i've now seen the film a couple of times now , that " hobbling " scene was no less disturbing ! 
i'm still left screaming at the telly in revulsion ! 
that may be the most memorable scene , but it's certainly not the only worth watching . 
stephen king , whose film and tv adaptations tend to vary in quality , strikes gold with this simple yet strikingly compelling tale . 
it's a nicely crafted psychological horror , which effortlessly succeeds in drawing you into the plight of writer phil sheldon ( james caan ) . 
rescued from a car accident by annie wilkes ( bates ) , who introduces herself as the writer's " number one fan " , he soon becomes her prisoner . 
both the script and kathy bates' beautifully masterful performance ( for which she won an oscar ) work arm-in-arm as we quickly begin to realise that beyond her bubbly exterior the woman is basically as nutty as a fruit-cake ( or is that fruity as a nut-cake ? ) . 
bates relishes her demanding role , and her performance is nothing short of a masterpiece . 
at times she seems like an innocent victim of her own obsessive behaviour , at times she's a rather tragic character , and more often than not she's just damned scary ! 
this is basically a very simple tale , but it achieves a large degree of eloquence in its simplicity . 
it's an involving , engrossing experience - and considering it's basically a two-hander , mainly set in one locale , it's a remarkable piece of cinema . 
there are no jazzy special effects or cheesy action sequences - this one relies solely upon rob reiner's stylish directing and the wonderful performances of bates and caan . 
oh , i haven't really mentioned caan yet - he does a good job as the writer who's a prisoner of his own success ( annie is obsessed with him and his books ) . 
but , as you no doubt gathered from the above - bates is well and truly the star of the show . 
along with the pig , of course ! 
anyway , the tension is built-up with masterful aplomb , and some scenes are almost agonisingly tense . 
there's the dinner scene where seldon goes to nerve-shattering lengths to poison her wine . 
he succeeds , but . . . she 
knocks the glass over ! 
i bet you threw a pillow at the screen as well ! 
in the immortal words of homer j . simpson - " d'oh ! ! " 
other nerve-wracking scenes include the bit where annie has gone off to town and sheldon starts snooping around the house . 
we cut to annie in her car - she's on her way home . . . he 
realises this and tries to get back to his room . . . cut 
to the car again , she's getting near . . . will he make it ? 
ok , so these sequences aren't exactly original , nor perhaps unpredictable - but they work ! 
boy , do they work ! 
if a film has you on the edge of your couch , biting your nails and shouting at the screen in suspense , then it's doing something right ! 
of course , the most nauseating sequence is the aforementioned " hobbling " ! 
annie realises her captive has been out of his room , and she's going to stop him once and for all . 
cue a block of wood placed strategically between his ankles and a huge sledgehammer , and . . . i feel ill just thinking about it ! 
nasty . 
it all builds up nicely to the final scene where sheldon finally gets the upper hand , and once and for all tries to kill the crazy psycho ! 
and then we're given one of the most ridiculously over-the-top fight scenes i've ever seen . 
she gets hit over the head with a typewriter , set on fire , head smashed against the wall - and she just won't die ! 
sheldon isn't in terribly good shape either . 
if it weren't so gorey it would almost be laughable . 
but it's a terrifically effective film , and therefore the daft climax is easily overlooked . 
misery is a tight , tense , intense and chillingly entertaining thriller . 
the directing is first-rate , and the performances - bates in particular - contribute to making this a suitably nightmarish little gem . 
wonderful stuff . 
 ? - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * - for more regularly-updated film and tv reviews , check out my site ! 
http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/bungalow/4960 
- * - * - * - * - * - * - * - * -
0	0	synopsis : cro-magnon ayla loses her mother to an earthquake and escapes certain death by a lion . 
reluctantly rescued by a neanderthal clan who likes to have sex doggy-style , ayla grows up to become a blond , feminist supermodel who challenges the neanderthal patriarchy by throwing rocks and giving birth without a mate . 
comments : allow me to state for the record that i find daryl hannah an appealing presence in movies . 
she proved quite charming as the intelligent astronomer in the romantic comedy roxanne and equally creepy as pris in the sci-fi classic blade runner . 
the clan of the cave bear clearly tries to capitalize on hannah as a selling point : the poster art bears a striking closeup of hannah in tribal paint and the video box prominently features her name in lettering the same size as the title . 
not even her starring role in this turkey , unfortunately , can save it from being an unbelievable exercise in cheese . 
it's so uniquely bad ( a film dealing with prehistoric man that actually tries , and miserably fails , to be serious ) that it's oddly fascinating . 
the ridiculous attempt at drama here leaves the audience somehow transfixed , wanting to see how this dud plays out . 
the clan of the cave bear is based upon a popular novel by jean m . auel . 
to this day , the book possesses a loyal cult following . 
i remember a dear friend of mine had a dog-eared copy of the novel she had read as a child with all the so-called dirty parts blacked out with marker by her grandmother . 
i have never read this book , but i sure hope it's 10 , 000 times better than its film adaptation . 
if not , then i'm at a complete loss to explain its popularity . 
the clan of the cave bear immediately opens with a comically absurd scene . 
a young ayla , looking much like drew barrymore in e . t . , 
tramps about in the woods . 
with her cute little ponytails and fur wrapped about her , the audience's expectations of a convincing portrayal of prehistory are immediately shattered . 
what follows is a laughably choreographed sequence in which an earthquake swallows up ayla's mother ( a blonde with fur pants . . . er , 
leggings ) . 
tearful ayla looks on as the cameraman shakes the camera . . . well , 
as the earthquake slowly recedes . 
a hungry lion becomes interested in her for lunch , but the screaming six-year-old manages to outrun the king of the wild and find a safe haven . 
i won't detail the story any further ; this seems enough to illustrate my point . 
this movie is really stupid . 
it never even gives the audience a chance to suspend their disbelief . 
also , the obvious comparison between the appearance of cro-magnon man in prehistory and the rise of feminism in our century is about as subtle as burning a wonderbra in front of charlton heston . 
the movie doesn't just suggest this message ; it whacks the message into the audience with a two-by-four . 
a blond , gorgeous woman challenges the social laws of a bunch of people in gaudy brown wigs . 
she's of the " new people " ; they're of the " old people " with " the memories . " 
yep . 
we get it . 
we get it . 
the clan of the cave bear apparently received an academy award nomination for best make-up , which surprises me . 
the movie depends upon a lot of make-up obviously , but much of it is unconvincing . 
as stated before , daryl hannah is daryl hannah here ; she looks like she just stepped out of the shower all the time . 
the rest of the characters have dark make-up of some sort smeared over them to look like dirt . 
the face-painting that's occasionally seen is perhaps the only notable work here in my mind . 
this movie also suffers from its new age trappings . 
maybe the music sounded a lot more fresh or original during 1985 , but now it sounds dated and cliched , like poorly conceived elevator music . 
add to this the film's faux-mysticism , including spirit animals and dream visions , and a narrator who sounds like a psychic you'd expect to hear on a 1-900 number , and you get a movie that has serious problems being serious . 
the clan of the cave bear is rated r , though it's probably one of the most inoffensive offensive films i've seen in quite a while . 
it contains several scenes of sex sans nudity . 
the violence mostly consists of hunting scenes . 
the funniest moment of the movie occurs when a neanderthal in love with ayla attempts to rescue her from a ferocious bear . 
the bear bites his head off and the audience sees it rolling about . 
although this may sound gratuitous , i'm sure , it's so cheesy that it probably won't bother most people . 
the clan of the cave bear is a bad movie . 
however , as i wrote at the beginning of this review , it does have the distinction of originality . 
typically when i think of bottom-of-the-barrel films dealing with early man , fantasy movies involving dinosaurs ( who did not exist at the same time as man ) and raquel welch come to mind . 
the clan of the cave bear tries so hard to be serious that , though it's so bad , the audience is still interested by the unique setting and characters of the movie ( which is why i awarded this turkey two stars ) . 
i have to think that fans of the book would be disappointed with this film version ; however , i'm only basing this observation on the fact that the book is almost invariably better than the movie . 
i shudder to think that it could be otherwise . . .
1	1	contact ( pg ) there's a moment late in robert zemeckis's contact where i was reminded of why i started writing movie reviews in the first place . 
we see a scientist , dressed in a silvery space suit , walking tentatively across a narrow walkway leading inside a compact , spherical space pod , unaware of what awaits when the ball literally drops . 
anticipation , excitement , anxiety , fear--the audience experiences it all the emotional tension right with the character , nervously , breathlessly eager to see what lies ahead . 
it is this sense of discovery , the anticipation of which and its accompanying exhilaration , that makes this adaptation of the carl sagan novel such magical , captivating entertainment . 
jodie foster stars as dr . ellie arroway , a brilliant astronomer who dedicates her entire life to searching outer space for extraterrestrial radio signals . 
and i mean life--after losing her entire family when she was young , the only thing occupying ellie's world is this quest to discover life beyond this earth . 
after dealing with much skepticism on the part of government officials and wealthy financiers , ellie receives her vindication when she stumbles upon an incoming radio transmission from the distant star vega , which includes instructions on building an interstellar transport . 
from this synopsis , contact does not sound too different to most films about alien contact , but there is a whole lot more to this intelligent film than the sci-fi hook . 
the alien contact angle generates a great amount of suspense and awe , but perhaps more than anything else , contact is a character study of ellie , whose obsession with empirical , scientific evidence has erased all belief in a higher power . 
the irony is that , while admitting to having no religious faith , she holds onto her belief in extraterrestrial life with such passion and conviction that it becomes , in a sense , a religion in its own right . 
it would be easy for scripters james v . hart and michael goldenberg , in trying to paint a positive image of the heroine , to champion her scientific beliefs over religious ones , but they wisely eschew easy answers , giving equal time to both sides , and in so doing depict ellie as not completely sane . 
in the end , there is no right or wrong , nor is there one side that comes off more positive in the other , even slightly so--there are just two very viable points of view , each with their own merits , each with their own faults . 
the complex role of ellie is an actress's dream , and foster , a virtual shoo-in for yet another best actress oscar nomination next year , more than rises to the challenge . 
she conveys intelligence , determination , warmth , and , in a gutsy move , always on edge . 
we root for ellie and feel for her , but we also feel at times that she goes too far . 
contact is clearly foster's vehicle , but others are given their chance to shine in smaller roles . 
matthew mcconaughey , who receives outrageously high billing for his smallish role , holds his own as the religious counterpoint to ellie , spiritual scholar and government adviser palmer joss ( however , his main storyline , the tentative palmer-ellie romance , is the film's weakest subplot ) . 
john hurt is effectively creepy as s . r . 
hadden , the wealthy eccentric who provides ellie with her research funding . 
angela bassett continues to impress in her bit role as white house aide rachel constantine . 
most memorable of all , though , are tom skerritt and james woods , who play rival scientist dr . david drumlin and national security adviser michael litz , respectively ; both , especially skerritt , embody these asshole characters that the audience hissed just about every single one of their appearances . 
zemeckis comes off of his three-year break in top shape . 
always known as a director of effects-laden extravaganzas , it comes as no surprise that contact's visual effects are quite stunning . 
the central space journey is more than a little reminiscent of the close of 2001 : a space odyssey , but with more advanced technology at his disposal , zemeckis's voyage is even trippier than stanley kubrick's yet more wondrously pure . 
and zemeckis doesn't resist the urge to use the always-interesting incorporate-actors-into-existing-film-footage effect , which is every bit as seamless here as it was in forrest gump . 
effects , however , are confined to only a few scenes and clearly take a back seat to the drama , emotion , and pure wonder , which zemeckis proved to be quite adept at in gump . 
it says a lot that , in a summer science fiction film such as this , it's not so much the effects that stay with you as it is the drama and the issues that are raised . 
the thought-provoking , two-hour-plus contact is a much-welcome change of pace from summer no-brainers , but the fact that it is a smart film does not mean that it also isn't entertaining . 
for all the interesting questions it asks , the film is still what it's being sold as-- " a journey to the heart of the universe . " 
and what a fascinating , unforgettable journey it is .
1	0	the start of this movie reminded me of parts from the movie stargate . 
people are looking around in an egyptian temple reading about some dangerous thing that is going to destroy earth in the future . 
after a sort of confusing bit involving fake-looking cyborg things , the movie jumps into the future and the movie improves by leaps and bounds . 
the basic idea behind the movie is that every once in a while ( make that every 1000 years or so ) an evil force comes to destroy earth . 
the things needed to defend against this menace are the four elements of nature plus the fifth element . 
the plot in this movie really isn't that important to the thing though . 
this movie has very good special effects , for the most part . 
the techno-ish music in the background fits the mood very well . 
bruce willis is an illegal taxi-cab driver in a futuristic new york city . 
one day a lady draped with a few bandages drops down into his trunk . 
this movie is about what happens . 
the plot twists are interesting and the movie never fails to present the viewer with a variety of different locations . 
also there is a fair bit of action in the film , particularly towards the end . 
some characters are just plain strange including a highly-energetic deejay in drag . 
bruce willis does his normal job of blowing things away like he always does . 
the movie is definitely watchable and rarely slows down . 
it is one of those sci-fi films where you'll be saying " cool " followed by a " what the hell ? ! ? ! " . 
i give the fifth element .
0	0	this movie stinks ! 
although it is professionally crafted and there are some decent performances , the plot is so bad it drags the film into the abyss . 
i knew i was in for trouble when , during the opening establishment shots , we see a detailed close-up of warrant officer paul brenner's ( john travolta ) military identification card and it is the wrong color . 
this might seem like a minor detail , but anyone who has spent anytime with the military knows that active duty identification cards are green and dependant cards are yellow . 
and what about the senior military officer whose uniform shirt is so wrinkled he looks like he is a recruit on his first day of training . 
or what about when brenner tells a suspect that , because he is in the military , he doesn't have the right not to answer his questions even though these rights were central to military law well before the miranda decision . 
how hard is it to get someone familiar with the military to check these facts ? 
now details like this could be overlooked if the underlying story held up , but this story is so full of holes it is painful to sit through . 
for example , at the beginning of the film , paul brenner , an undercover army investigator , gets into a gun and knife battle at his off-post houseboat and winds-up killing an arms dealer he had been investigating . 
the local police investigating the death are openly hostile to the military and they discover that brenner has been lying to them about the killing . 
but instead of arresting him , or at least take him into custody for further questioning , they release him . 
duh ! 
ultimately , brenner gets assigned to investigate the murder and possible rape of the commanding general's daughter , a young captain also assigned to the post . 
when brenner finds graphic sex tapes featuring the general's daughter , does he use them to generate a suspect list and begin grilling suspects . 
no , his instinct is to suppress them because they might be potentially embarrassing . 
eventually , brenner discovers that this murder is related to a violent gang rape at west point eight years earlier . 
i won't even go into the totally unbelievable rationale for the army's suppression of this horrendous crime . 
i will just mention one final flaw . 
brenner is investigating a crime that occurred in georgia . 
the rape occurred in west point , which is in new york . 
he is under a very tight ( and totally implausible ) 36-hour deadline to solve this case . 
he needs to discuss the rape with a psychiatrist at west point . 
does he phone the doctor ? 
no , he travels ( via some unexplained very fast transport ) to new york to question the psychiatrist in person , and then he returns to georgia ( again by the miracle transport ) , without once worrying about the impact any of this will have on his deadline . 
you have been warned , stay away from this one .
1	1	robert redford's a river runs through it is not a film i watch often . 
it is a masterpiece -- one of the better films of recent years . 
until 1994 , it was my second favorite film of all time . 
the acting and direction is top-notch -- never sappy , always touching . 
a friend of mine once reported that he avoided it because " i was afraid it would just be really politically correct , and tick me off . " 
all i could do was tell him to go in unbiased , and enjoy . 
it is one of the few movies that has completely reduced me to tears . 
but certain memories should not often be rereleased -- in the last few shots , you have to cry . 
upon my first viewing i left bawling . 
it is not flawless -- but it is so very good , that you can't help but be effected . 
the opening is dangerously nolstalgic and sentimental -- watching these shots of people who have been dead so long , gives you a feeling of perspective and history observation that you will find in very few other films . 
martin scorsese once described the movies as a dream state -- like taking dope , and immersing yourself in an alternative world . 
that is what a river runs through it does . 
it exploits the unique power of cinema to engross you and help to forget your real self . 
both times i've seen it , its been hard ( again to quote scorsese ) waking up . 
but the dream is lovely .
0	0	2 days in the valley is more or less a pulp fiction knock off . 
it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters in the los angeles area end up having their lives become intertwined in some very unusual ways . 
i'm not going into much greater detail than that , since it would take forever to explain , and quite frankly , i'm not willing to spend any more time on it than the 2 hours that i've already wasted . 
while it tries very hard to be pulp fiction , 2 days in the valley falls way short . 
this is quite a condemnation considering the cast includes danny aiello , james spader and jeff daniels . 
while the story isn't much , and the dialogue and characters rate only marginally better , 2 days in the valley does have a couple of bright spots . 
james spader's character , while not much better than the rest , is at least fun to watch in a sick sort of way . 
and we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher and charlize theron ( in her first role ) . 
you know a movie isn't that good when the highlight is a brawl between two women . 
even if they are both gorgeous . 
i will give the writers some credit for the fairly clever ways in which they managed to intersect the lives of this group of characters that would have otherwise never interacted . 
but marveling at that ingenuity is a far cry from actually enjoying the result . 
while some of the characters and their respective stories are fairly interesting , they inevitably are brought down as they intersect with the other half of the characters that i really cared absolutely nothing about . 
if i were to put a number on it , only about half of the story and half the characters in this movie were particularly interesting or otherwise enjoyable to watch . 
this is the sort of movie that only a huge fan of one or more of the cast members should rent , and even then prepare for disappointment . 
not even charlize theron being naked would get me to sit through this movie again . 
or at least not all of it anyway .
0	1	teenagers have a lot of power in hollywood . 
every year countless films will be made targeting that audience in particular , and rely on the entire teenage population to turn out on friday and saturday nights , wallets in hand . 
the formula is very simple , you make a film with a big name young actor or actress with sex appeal . 
you add a high school environment that features everyone from prom queens to math club nerds , and then a very simple relationship conflict that can be worked out in 90 minutes , the typical teenage attention span . 
the response is enormous as this part of the population will waste it92s money on almost any = film set in an environment they can relate to , and , most importantly , they don92t care to judge films=92 quality , so any piece of trash will = due . 
that is just what never been kissed , the latest film from director raja gosnell , is ; trash . 
josie geller ( drew barrymore ) is the youngest copy editor in the history of the chicago sun times . 
she has her own personal assistant , unlimited supplies , and her own office . 
but she is very much dismayed with her position in life . 
there is nothing she wants more than to be a reporter and go out into the field , where she can play a more active role in the chicago media . 
so when an assignment is quite literally thrown at her out of nowhere , she jumps at it with elation . 
constantly smothering josie in the work place is her friend anita ( molly shannon ) and her amicable superior , gus ( john c . reilly ) . 
the two of them are both stricken with horror upon hearing the news of her first assignment , as they both deem her to be an office worker and not a reporter . 
however , since this film is aimed at a teenage audience with little patience for character conflict , this otherwise interesting scenario is resolved within two minutes , and josie is headed for the field . 
obviously , the field assignment involves a high school . 
specifically , she is to become an undercover reporter at a high school , by enrolling in the senior class and " becoming one of them . " 
i don92t think that i = need to even begin to explain all the impossibilities of this situation ever occurring , so i won92t . 
the movie develops into josie trying to find the life that she never led in high school . 
interwoven flashback scenes show us just how much of a dork she truly was , and she appears to be heading down that road again . 
fortunately for this lame production , other characters do appear that make some of these high school scenes both humorous and remotely interesting . 
they include the predictable love stories , between both a student ( jeremy jordan ) and a teacher ( michael vartan ) , to show that josie is really two people in one body . 
also , her younger brother and opposite , rob ( david arquette ) comes into her new found life and even causes a rare scene that is mildly provocative . 
the humor found in this film is actually quite amusing . 
typical for teenage films , it is chalk full of sexual innuendoes and condom humor . 
one scene in particular features a certain classroom activity involving bananas and latex that is absolutely hysterical . 
most of the other jokes are straight forward high school humor that anyone who has ever been to high school can appreciate and will enjoy . 
but those still don92t = recover for the total lack of quality in this movie . 
following this trend of high school movie rules , comes the general acting . 
it is even worse than the trend of overplaying a scenario from film to film . 
in this case , drew barrymore is absolutely painful to watch . 
she is required to play her character on two levels , having some very black and white transitions . 
and although some scenes are written to be particular shades of gray , she seems to hold that color throughout all of her screen time . 
at one point she is alone with an obvious love interest on a ferris wheel , and is expected to him on an adult level , since he is one , her teacher . 
but she never seems to get out of the gray area , and in doing so she makes a mockery out of his otherwise good performance . 
following barrymore is the pitiful molly shannon ( saturday night live ) . 
she seems to be limited to playing an ecstatic character that no one can relate to , and draws the attention of an audience as simply unrealistic . 
it is these " qualities " that prevent the aforementioned condom scene from being one of the few decent . 
luckily there is one great performance to emerge out of this otherwise bleak film . 
david arquette ( scream ) takes home the prize for being able to stand out in an ensemble performance that is absolutely pathetic , and not have his brilliant acting ruined . 
and as a central character he gets to take on his own mini-plot , which is one of the few well done parts of never been kissed . 
in a dazzling cherry-on-the-sundae type piece of work , he does an absolutely hilarious tom cruise impression from the 1983 hit , risky business . 
never been kissed is a mediocre film at best . 
the predictable plot has become so overplayed in hollywood , that it is sickening to watch time and again , and this film is no exception . 
the acting is just as bad , but there is the one positive presence of david arquette to add some light . 
unfortunately , the bottom line is that the movie will be a success , because teenagers will pay to see any trash .
0	1	for a film touted as exploring relationships and black sexuality , trois is surprisingly tame . 
despite it's lurid subject matter and it's passing nod to fatal attraction , it moves along with flat , uninspired dialogue as it sets up a surprising climax that tries mightily to overthrow the considerable dead weight of the rest of the film . 
freshly moved to atlanta , jermaine ( dourdan ) and his wife , jasmine ( moore ) , have the trappings of a perfect life . 
they have a beautiful house in suburbia . 
jermaine is a lawyer on the fast track at his firm . 
jasmine is his supportive wife , who is finishing up her college degree . 
in an opening montage via a home video of the pair , we see the unremarkable story of their marriage and early marital triumphs . 
this is a couple that has it all . 
into this eden slithers the lure of lust . 
despite his outward appearance , jermaine reveals himself as selfish and covetous of his wife more as a possession than a person . 
a glimmer of his true nature peeks out during an early sex scene with his wife as he goes about his business , oblivious to jasmine's concerns . 
we also find that he has been relentlessly asking jasmine to participate in a menage- a-trois , much to jasmine's dismay . 
as jermaine puts it , " don't you want to be sexually free ? " 
jermaine shares his desire with co-worker terrence ( smith ) , who obligingly sets jermaine up with a woman who might be interested in just such an encounter . 
the woman , jade ( palmer ) is a direct counterpoint to jasmine . 
jade , at one point was a college student , too . 
unlike jasmine , she found herself pregnant , dropped out of school and now struggles to make ends meet . 
to further reinforce their differences , it's revealed that jade is involved in a custody battle over her son . 
inevitably , through liquor and a touch of duplicity on jermaine's part , the forbidden act is consummated . 
the aftermath of the encounter sidesteps into fatal attraction territory as acts of violence are perpetrated upon jermaine's property with the hint that the violence may escalate . 
by this point , trois shows itself to be a soap opera without the requisite melodrama : a fatal attraction without the social significance . 
the exploration of relationships is strictly superficial and stereotypical . 
jermaine comes off as insincere , sexually driven and selfish . 
jasmine is bland and subservient . 
jade comes off a bit sympathetically , but that is negated by her moral bankruptcy . 
yet another tale of a sexually aggressive " dog " of a man who imposes his will upon his accommodating , innocent mate . 
the last 10 minutes will undoubtly throw you a curve , but by this point , will you even care ? 
if the rest of the movie was as dynamic as the ending , perhaps there could have been some freshness to it . 
as it stands , trois is pretty standard fare .
1	0	robocop is an intelligent science fiction thriller and social satire , one with class and style . 
the film , set in old detroit in the year 1991 , stars peter weller as murphy , a lieutenant on the city's police force . 
1991's detroit suffers from rampant crime and a police department run by a private contractor ( security concepts inc . ) whose employees ( the cops ) are threatening to strike . 
to make matters worse , a savage group of cop-killers has been terrorizing the city . 
on murphy's first day of duty , after his transfer from another precinct , these cop-killers brutally murder him by shooting off his limbs one by one . 
 ( orion pictures had to edit this extremely graphic scene in order to get an r rating from the m . p . a . a . ) 
after the emergency room staff at the hospital cannot save murphy and declare him clinically dead , s . c . i . 
recruits his remains for their new " robocop " program . 
using the remains of murphy's body as a foundation , their scientists build a cyborg , made of both flesh and metal . 
the cyborg ( robocop ) is half human ( murphy ) and half robot ; the s . c . i . 
engineers have erased murphy's memory and replaced it with a computer program ( or so they think ) . 
with his lightning quick reflexes , immense strength , and impenetrable armor , s . c . i . 
envisions robocop as an indestructible super-cop : the solution to detroit's problems . 
the remainder of the plot follows robocop's crime-foiling and vengeance on his murderers . 
as a science fiction action-thriller , robocop is extremely effective . 
dutch director paul verhoeven combines gritty action with suspense , shocking gore , and spectacular special effects . 
several sequences in the film , such as the one in which robocop employs his extremely precise aim to stop a rapist , are destined to become cult-classics . 
because robocop is so visually and emotionally rousing , it demands to be seen on a large screen with an audience--in other words , in a movie theater . 
although the special effects and action are exciting , they do not by themselves set robocop apart from other films in the genre . 
rather , robocop stands out for its accurate and biting satire of american society . 
the movie makes a mockery of the star wars defense initiative , terrorism , board games , and television news broadcasts with air-headed anchors . 
these news broadcasts , which are exceptionally clever , recur periodically throughout the movie and help to provide comic relief from the intense action and gore . 
the satire in robocop , however , is almost as frightening in its own way as the suspense and blood . 
1990's america , as portrayed in the film , may seem far fetched but is in actuality ( i think ) only a slight exaggeration of the current state of american society . 
the humorous satire in robocop is simultaneously credible and absurd . 
verhoeven adroitly balances the satirical comedy with the gory action to create an entertaining and enlightening piece of science fiction/social commentary . 
unfortunately , robocop possesses several flaws which prevent it from qualifying as a classic within the genre . 
the movie lacks the lasting impact of such films as the road warrior , the terminator , and aliens . 
robocop's main problem , aside from its dumb title , is that it does not sufficiently develop murphy's character . 
we never learn the degree to which murphy ( as robocop ) is human and the degree to which he is a robot . 
does murphy have any human spirit or free will left , or is he merely a computer following a program ? 
the script halfheartedly raises these issues but then abandons them in its climactic flurry of gory action . 
moreover , it almost completely ignores the question ( and tragedy ) of denying a man his right to die in favor of turning him into a machine . 
robocop also contains several bothersome loose-ends . 
as you watch robocop , you experience deja vu ; you feel as if you have seen the film before . 
in many respects , robocop is reminiscent of several other films , including the terminator , return of the jedi , and even death wish . 
however , to its credit , robocop easily has enough originality and unique personality to avoid becoming a cheap rip-off .
1	1	in these days of overlong movies ( meet joe black , the thin red line , the mask of zorro ) it is a shame that films like waking ned devine can't be longer than a paltry 90 minutes . 
this is just a cute movie , even through its mildly risque subject matter . 
old friends jackie ( bannen ) and michael ( kelley ) try to find the lottery winner ( they deduce must live in their dinky town of about 60 ) so that they might kiss up to him and share the winnings . 
through process of elimination , they find that it must be lovable old ned devine , who they find sitting in front of his tv , clutching the winning lottery ticket in his cold dead hand . 
what results is thuroughly amusing , as jackie tries to convince his wife that not claiming it would be wrong , and that they could really benefit . 
after all , old ned won't miss it . 
rather than divulge the later twists and turns , i'll stop here merely pointing out that jackie and michael get into all sorts of trouble in their little sleepy irish villiage . 
bannen and kelly are a perfect pair . 
one slightly stout , the other as thin as a rail . 
both getting on in years , they make such a cute pair of old codgers . 
waking ned devine may even be seen as a " full monty " for the geriatric set , especially since kelly gets buff-o for one amusing scene . 
waking ned devine is by no means perfect , but it is so sincere and touching that it looks so much better than most films . 
the performances by everyone in the town are great , particularly the two leads . 
there is one twist at the end which i find unnecessary , but it hardly ruins the picture . 
writer/director kirk jones should be held up as an example to all those hollywood screenwriters . 
scripts as creative and endearing as this should be the norm , not the exception . 
perhaps it makes us appreciate this wonderful film even more . 
had i held off on my year's best/worst list for another day , waking ned devine ( officially released in late november of 98 ) surely would have graced the short group of the year's finest films . 
it is light , but thought provoking and sweet . 
i can't think of anyone who shouldn't see ( or wouldn't enjoy ) this film .
0	0	pre-review note : seeing as the only concern of body shots is " sex " , i will be forced to refer to that particular act innumerable times throughout the duration of this review . 
because of this , i will try to vary word descriptions of " sex " ( meaning if you are offended by pejorative terms , and \ or your name is jerry falwell , you are kindly invited to hit the x up on the left corner of your screen ) , so if there happens to be a word you come across and cannot comprehend , fret not , it's most likely just another way of referring to " sex " . 
i think we'd all agree that any word used incessantly becomes a bit monotonous so i hope you appreciate my attempt to liven up what could potentially be a very boring review . 
though not as boring as the movie which makes steve forbes flat tax plan seem as lively as watching a naked mathew mconaughy play the bongos while high on god knows what . 
body shots is a film so frightened of coitus that scenes of copulation are filmed ominously , in the way you'd normally expect to see a violent attack . 
it's about people who think about screwing , seek it out , and talk about it . 
these are things we all do , sometimes . 
the characters in this film spend every waking moment pondering the simplicities of sexual acts . 
their lives center around the next sexual encounter , but they seemed depressed . 
it's as if fucking is all they have to look forward to after a busy workweek . 
at its core body shots is a message movie , the kind of thing i could picture really progressive church groups showing to middle schoolers in order to turn them off coition . 
michael cristoffer ( who directed gia , another film that treated bumping uglies as if it where evil ) is a moralist with nothing new to say . 
his characters don't communicate anything of interest to each other , so cristoffer gives them an opportunity to let out their inner thoughts by speaking directly into the camera . 
they voice simplistic platitudes like " i like to come " or " sex without love equals violence " . 
huh ? 
and yes that is as complex as this movie's observations get . 
the characters are stupid and shallow , with not one registering as anything more . 
the plot concerns vapid over sexed twentysomethings on an all night hunt for carnal pleasure , then the after math ( the morning after ) of such events . 
we meet the characters as they speak directly to us , confiding in us with their idiotic ruminations on intimacy . 
i would normally go into the characters and the actors who play them , giving you the pros and cons , but for this film i cannot . 
i'm not trying to be clever or witty , but i honestly hardly remember anything that would set them apart from the others . 
with the exception of trent ( played by ron livingston as a bargain basement patrick bateman ) , the rest fade into each other-- a patchwork of fake breasts , defined abs , pearly white teeth , and creamy , flawless skin . 
i vaguely recall brad rowe as the sensitive one , only because his character gets the worst lines ( " sex without love equals violence " ) . 
in between all the confessionals , cristoffer films everything like a headache commercial , with blurry slo mos and dramatic head turning . 
the fact that this director at one point won a pulitzer prize completely baffles me . 
this film is made without one iota of intelligence or insight into the generation that its tag line claims to be defining . 
if body shots is meant to say that all twentysometyhings are idiotic and f * * k-obsessed , fine , i don't have any problem with a film that tries to persuade me to think a certain way , but cristoffer only gives us one side . 
additionally that one side isn't even entertaining ; the characters indulge in buggery without an ounce of sexiness . 
or realism . 
one sexual encounter takes place outside a club on a chain link fence between the two most sensitive characters . 
they suddenly have vigorous intercourse with each other for no apparent reason ( other than that they both happen to be standing next to each other ? ? ? alas , if it could only be that easy ? ? ? kidding of course ) , then , not only isn't it erotic , it isn't real . 
it doesn't feel like an authentic sexual encounter . 
every f * * k scene in this film ( and there are many ) is treated in the same unsexy manner . 
body shots makes fornication dirtier than the most scummy porno film . 
it shows us none of the pleasure that should go along with it , and most of all , it fails to show us why its characters love making it so much if they seem to hate the act of actually doing it . 
the resulting search for nookie ( and you can take that cookie ? ? ? ) over one night leaves us with several tedious plot lines to follow . 
the main concern is much ado over a rape that may or may not have occurred . 
the film shows us two separate versions of the possible rape ( one where it is consensual the other where it is not ) and in both versions the young actress playing the possible victim gets her shirt torn off . 
this is a topic that could be interestingly explored if done intelligently , and if memory serves me i can't think of one film that has done so , and yes i saw the accused which may be one of the most overrated movies of the 80's next to wall street . 
unfortunately nobody gives us reason to care , not the writer , the director or the actors nearly all of whom seem to have wandered off the set of a noxious 90210 spin off . 
paul thomas anderson approached boogie nights in a manner similar to what cristoffer does here , though boogie nights succeeded . 
it was similarly moralistic , but it gave us two different viewpoints ; it showed us how the lifestyle of porn enticed its characters , and it showed us the possible fall-out of such a decision . 
the characters in boogie nights were as idiotic as the characters are here , but anderson seemed to care about them . 
he gave them heart . 
cristoffer gives them nothing but raging hormones . 
he preaches to us , by using his characters to preach to us . 
this is not the way to get any message across . 
why not just direct a public service announcement on the perils of hittin' skins ? 
cristofer kind of does that , though without an ounce of insight , and with a helping of leering exploitation .
1	1	not too many people know who james whale is , but it's a safe bet that a good chunk of them have seen his movies . 
if we are to believe the semi- biographical gods and monsters , whale would have wanted it to be that way . 
this is an insightful , haunting exploration of the last days of the frankenstein and bride of frankenstein director , and it is notable for introducing one of the first complicated gay characters in a hollywood movie . 
gods and monsters has no interest in being a biopic of whale's life because it tracks only the final few days of his life , and it's probably a better movie for it . 
it's focus is on whale's ( ian mckellen ) untraditional and deceptive lust for heterosexual gardener clayton boone ( brendan fraser ) . 
it begins with whale ( a fairly talented artist , aside from being a director ) asking boone to " sit for him , " ( pose for a portrait ) . 
at first , boone doesn't realize that whale is gay and grows fascinated with the old man . 
when he does discover whale's sexual orientation from his dedicated and protective maid ( lynn redgrave ) , he is frightened , refusing to sit for the guy . 
but he comes back , only to storm out again , disgusted with whale's " locker room talk . " 
boone returns yet another time , after whale promises to tone down the aforementioned " locker room talk , " and finds their platonic relationship to be strengthening . 
meanwhile , jimmy himself is suffering from hallucinations and mental attacks as a result of his stroke not long ago . 
his ailment leads to desperation and depression , which build to the point where he is forced to ask boone for an incredulously big favor . 
what is perhaps most sensational about gods and monsters is brendan fraser's bravura performance ; up until seeing this film i intensely disliked the young actor because of his tendency to ruin the movies he is in ( blast from the past , for example ) . 
i was surprised how expressive an actor he proved himself to be here . 
this is impressive because his character's dialogue is minimal , with mckellan doing most of the talking . 
that requires fraser to act through body language ; a difficult skill to master , but something he proves capable of doing well . 
this is not to ignore mckellan's oscar nominated turn . 
he earned that nomination with his touching performance here ( although , at the risk of sounding like a philistine , i would have chosen his performance as the nazi in apt pupil for the nomination ) ; an understated , compelling gem . 
whale dreaded being remembered solely for his work in the hollywood horror genre , and he thought hollywood to be the equivalent of a battlefield . 
he rejoiced in being free from it , only reluctantly going to receptions with fellow movie people . 
in the end , perhaps , it is what killed him : the memories of hollywood and war blending together to form a living nightmare . 
 ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ;
1	1	the relaxed dude rides a roller coaster 
the big lebowski a film review by michael redman copyright 1998 by michael redman 
the most surreal situations are ordinary everyday life as viewed by an outsider . 
when those observers are joel and ethan coen , the surreal becomes bizarre . 
when the life is that of jeff " the dude " leboswki , the bizarre falls over the edge into the world of " what'sgoingonaroundhere " . 
the marvelous sound of " the stranger " ( sam elliot ) 's voice-over introduces the film . 
at least it does until he forgets what he was going to say and gives up . 
the dude ( jeff bridges ) is described as the " laziest man in los angeles , possibly the world " , although he's not so much slothful as he is relaxed . 
spending the last 30 years with a roach clip in one hand and a white russian in the other , he doesn't have much of a life , but he's having a good time . 
when asked what he does for fun , he responds " bowl , drive around and the occasional acid flashback " . 
lebowski's passion is bowling . 
when he's not rolling the ball down an alley towards a strike , things just happen to him . 
arriving home one night , he's beaten by thugs attempting to collect money that his wife owes them . 
even worse , they urinate on his rug . 
the problem is that the dude doesn't have a wife . 
his assailants realize that their target is a different lebowski when they glance around at his apartment . 
the " big " lebowski ( david huddleston ) is a multi-millionaire and his dudeness lives in two-room squalor . 
the next day , our ragtag hero visits his namesake's mansion attempting compensation for his soaked rug . 
the carpet is important to him because it pulls the room together : not surprisingly since it's virtually the only object there . 
when he's denied any money , he picks up a replacement rug off the floor . 
on his way out , he runs into lebowski's trophy babe wife bunny ( tara reid ) who offers to perform a sexual act that , according to rumor , is one of bill clinton's favorites for a thousand bucks . 
the penniless dude wisecracks that he's heading for the cash machine . 
later he gets an unexpected phone call enlisting his aid in being the bag man to deliver a ransom to bunny's kidnappers . 
this begins the trademarked coen brothers crimes-gone-wrong sequences . 
the kidnappers are impossibly inept . 
the dude and his cronies are even worse . 
every plan goes awry . 
you can almost see lebowski's brain churning in slow motion as he tries to figure out the clues . 
that's the story , but to tell the truth it doesn't much matter . 
there could be almost any plot and the film would be just as entertaining . 
the narrative only exists so we can watch the offbeat characters and the quirky predicaments they fall into . 
the dude's bowling buddies walter ( john goodman ) and donny ( steve buscemi ) look like people you'd see on the street but , like everything else in this film , they're not quite what they seem . 
walter is a vet as stuck in vietnam as the dude is in the sixties . 
everything that happens reminds him of a situation in the nam . 
when a fellow bowler crosses the foul line but won't admit it , walter pulls a gun on him until he marks a zero on the score sheet . 
donny gets precious few words in between walter's screaming and the dude's rambling . 
when he does , walter shouts him down with horrendous albeit seemingly unintentional bowling puns . 
donny is " out of his league " and doesn't " have a frame of reference " . 
the film is peppered with people for whom the term " character " would be an understatement . 
the big lebowski's daughter maude , an avant-garde " vaginal " artist , paints while swinging naked in a leather apparatus like an s&m mary martin . 
the kidnappers are german techno nihilist bikers . 
bunny lebowski is a high school cheerleader turned porno star . 
most impressive is john turturro in his far too small role as a hispanic bowler . 
as the flamenco music swells , we see him putting on his lavender hose . 
the camera pans up to an all-purple skin-tight bowling outfit with " jesus " ( pronounced with a " j " , not an " h " ) embroidered on the pocket . 
he addresses the lane with intense seriousness and one painted fingernail . 
his tongue slowly snakes out and lovingly licks the glowing bowling ball . 
bridges works the dude as if he had been living him for decades and maybe he has . 
i can't think of anyone else who could have done a better job . 
buscemi has a limited role , but he plays it perfectly . 
the more that i see john goodman the more convinced i am that he's one of the treasures of our time . 
it's odd to think that most of the world knows him only as roseanne barr's television husband . 
more like the coen's " raising arizona " than their hit " fargo " , " the big lebowski " demands an open mind and even more open eyes . 
a mark of the coen brothers is that even with all wonderful dream sequences and the broad slapstick physical comedy on the screen , much of the humor is subtle and easy to miss . 
there's so much going on that frequently it disappears before you can see it . 
walking out of the theater , i felt that the film had something important to say . 
on further examination , i wasn't sure exactly what it was . 
 " if you meet jesus at the bowling alley , it's not going to be what you expect " ? 
 " when the going gets weird , the weird go bowling " ? 
maybe there's no real message . 
perhaps it's just a roller coaster ride through a hilarious world . 
maybe that's enough . 
 ( michael redman has written this column for 23 years and just realized that he was so taken with the dude that he ran out of space to talk about " the man in the iron mask " starring that favorite of 14-year-old girls of all ages . 
redman@bvoice . com is the eaddress for estuff . )
0	0	the rapid-fire formula that worked so well in airplane ! , the " police squad ! " 
television series , top secret ! , three naked gun films , and two hot shots ! 
movies has finally reached a desperate dead-end with spy hard . 
even ezio gregio's the silence of the hams is arguably funnier than this over-extended spy- and action-movie spoof . 
leslie nielsen stars as secret agent wd-40 , who returns from retirement to battle his old nemesis , general rancor ( a cackling andy griffith ) . 
the jokes fly in every direction and with hardly a hint of restraint , timing , or tact . 
most the movie is comprised of recycled airplane and naked gun gags , recreated movie sequences , and soggy star cameos . 
yeah , maybe we * do * need ray charles driving an l . a . bus bound for a speed bump , but did mr . t , hulk hogan , and dr . joyce brothers also have to appear in the same movie ? 
leslie nielsen plays it straight with his usual dopey flair . 
there is something oddly inspiring about the sight of nielsen wearing a nun's habit , even the resulting sister act spoof is silly . 
as are the bits directly lifted from home alone , pulp fiction , true lies , etc . etc . ( adolescent males might enjoy this mess , tho . 
the butt shots , breast peeks , penis pokes , flatulence gags , and related innuendo are right up beavis and butthead's alley . ) 
beyond the hilarious title sequence with " weird " al yankovich performing the theme song , spy hard is barely the stock that it's printed on . 
my recommendation : duck in while you're waiting for another movie to start . 
stay long enough to see the camera dart inside of weird al's nostril and then leave . 
you won't miss a thing .
1	1	the most amazing thing about paul cox's innocence is how unlike a movie it is . 
i mean that as the highest compliment . 
if most studios were to profile an elderly couple who rekindle a 40-year-old romance , i'd want to run and hide . 
the sex scenes would be handled as a farce , producers would shed 20 years off the characters' ages ( so susan sarandon and harrison ford could star ) and true love would shine through any obstacle without explanation and consequence . 
along with a charming romantic story , the australian/belgian innocence shows how an increasing sense of mortality combined with revisiting the past while being entrenched in the present can make something that seems so right seem downright questionable . 
the romance gets started when former musician andreas ( charles " bud " tingwell ) , learns that his true love , claire ( julia blake ) , lives nearby . 
they decide to catch up on old times , but soon find themselves in a reinvigorating affair . 
complicating matters is andreas' frail health , and claire's longtime husband ( terry norris ) , who can't understand why he's suddenly become obsolete . 
in my mind , the movie is less about the relationship between andreas and claire , than the feelings of everyone involved . 
john , claire's husband , endlessly questions what he did wrong . 
claire initially insists she's a grown-up , but admittedly behaves like a child , a prospect that thrills and disappoints her . 
andreas , an agnostic , begins to question his fate , a message cox delivers in a memorable dream sequence . 
cox litters the movie with flashbacks , including the repeated vision of a roaring train . 
it's a reminder of andreas and claire's past love ( as young lovers , they met by train ) , but as it recurs , we get the feeling that the past and the present have clashed . 
a pall is cast on the whole affair . 
a master of the understated , cox strings together a series of memorable moments . 
in andreas' dream sequence , amidst the roar of the train and conversations , we get the whole picture of andreas and claire's love . 
we also get glimpses into john and claire's relationship . 
during a silent candlelit dinner shortly afterward , claire admits to john about her indiscretion , telling more than any monologue could . 
all that's heard is the scraping of forks against plates . 
the characters are unlike anything i've seen -- they're people . 
so many times , movies and especially television portray senior citizens as gratingly spunky . 
or they're reduced to comedic buffoons . 
ordinary people with a pile of emotions , claire and andreas aren't sure what the next step is . 
they do want to be happy , which consists of an entirely different set of conditions than what they've known throughout their adult lives . 
bravo to cox , who wrote the script , for not making john a monster , so that claire's affair is automatically justified . 
norris is so effective as john that he makes andreas and claire's love difficult to accept . 
we feel for him . 
he's a decent man . 
sure , he may have become complacent , but he never expected this , especially now . 
with so much presented to the audience , it's only expected that the material gets a little drawn out and repetitive , which it does . 
however , in bringing up tough questions and not offering easy answers , cox displays a skill and ? lan isn't likely to be surpassed by anyone anytime soon .
1	1	your friends and neighbors is a rather bizarre film about 6 people , who hop in and out of bed with each other . 
written and directed by neil labute , who's first film , " in the company of men " was simply marvelous , disappoints a bit here with this one . 
the story involves two couples ( ben stiller & catherine keener and aaron eckhart & amy brenneman ) , an artist assistant ( nastassja kinski ) , and an egotistical women abuser ( jason patric ) . 
the character's names are not apparent and are not mentioned in the entire movie . 
each of the characters has their own sexual style and they don't seem to " merge " together well . 
so the group experiments behind their respective partners back . 
there are some hysterical scenes , one involves jason patric , aaron eckhart , and ben stiller's characters . 
they are all in a sauna , talking about their best " lay " , when jason patric's character makes a surprising confession . 
the whole scene is hilarious and exceptionally well written and acted . 
the enjoyed this movie , although it seemed a tad lengthy ( even though it only runs 99 min . ) . 
the film's cast is exceptional with oscar caliber performances by catherine keener , aaron eckhart , and jason patric . 
i would not recommend this film , to people who are offended by conversations that are very sexually explicit . 
it did seem to offend people , more than half of the people in the theater left during the film . 
although your friends and neighbors doesn't have the power of labute's earlier film it still manages to be somewhat entertaining and funny , while maintaining a melancholy philosophy on human relationships .
1	0	review- peter jackson's the frighteners has received some notice for setting the record for most computer effects ever in a movie , and still coming in at the extremely cheap $30 million price tag . 
but for those who were dismayed by this year's blockbusters like twister and independence day , the frighteners has much more to offer than special effects . 
and for those worried wether or not peter jackson would compromise to hollywood you can rest easily . 
the frighteners is as far removed from hollywood as a high-profile movie can get . 
michael j . fox stars as frank bannister , a con artist who can speak to ghosts . 
he uses this ability to set up a scam in a small town where his ghost buddies scare the hell out of people , then he comes and pretends to get rid of them . 
this is how he has made a living ever since his wife died in a car crash 5 years ago . 
frank's latest customers are a young couple , played by trini alvarado and peter dobson . 
when dobson ends up dead , alvarado starts to take an interest in fox . 
but dobson's spirit is still around as he refuses to beleive he's dead . 
this leads to a very awkward and amusing dinner date between fox and alvarado , with dobson tagging along as a ghost . 
things start getting complicated for fox when he is accused for a series of murders taking place in the town . 
fox sees someone named the soul collector crushing the heart of the victims , but noone else can see that . 
so when fox shows up to try and save each victim , naturally people suspect he is the killer . 
fox sees that alvarado is next on the soul collector's hit list , and the last half hour of the movie deals with fox's attempts to save her from this evil spirit . 
there are many wonderful twists and turns in the screenplay written by peter jackson and frances walsh . 
the movie starts off as a black comedy , and ends up a horror-action film . 
the mix between these genres are perfect . 
no laughs are sacrificed in the name of horror , and vice versa . 
one point of contention might be a lackluster score by danny elfman . 
but that hardly seems like a flaw when you have such a diverse cast all in top form . 
michael j . fox delivers one of his best performances to date as a man who hides the sorrow of his wife's death , and then is forced to confront this later on . 
alvarado , looking like andie macdowell , makes a great frightened , tough , and smart heroine . 
and jeffery combs , as a paranoid fbi agent , is brilliantly bizaare . 
the frighteners never once feels like it is running long . 
the first hour is as funny as any comedy this year , and the last half hour is as thrilling as any of the big budget blockbusters . 
this movie is probably what casper would've looked like if david lynch directed it . 
it's easily the best film of the year , so far .
0	0	synopsis : a novelist struggling with his latest work buys a weird brain with a protruding eyeball encased in a jar . 
the brain exerts its evil influence upon the novelist and his secretary , while his wife disapproves . 
meanwhile , a loan shark in need of a shave tries to leave his profession . 
comments : why is this movie called possessed by the night ? 
it's hard to speculate . 
most of this film takes place during the day , and the only thing possessing anyone is an icky , pulsating , bubbling brain thingie in a jar . 
in case you haven't picked up on this yet , possessed by the night is a bottom-of-the-barrel " thriller " ( i use the term " thriller " loosely here ) which is really cheap and bad . 
the plot , which sounds like a cheesy pulp science fiction story from the 1950s , actually serves one purpose : to exploit nude women as often as possible . 
writing a movie review for a film like this proves oddly challenging . 
there's really not much to say . 
the acting is lousy ; although , occasionally , the attempts at acting are so absurd that they garner a chuckle or two from the audience . 
most humorous is frank sivero , who plays murray , the novelist's agent . 
he is so horrible in this role that one can't help but be amused . 
the plot sucks . 
nearly half the film is devoted to a loser loan shark who wants out of the profession , even though he has only limited relevance to the movie as a whole . 
the dialogue stinks . 
a loan shark , for instance , tells another how much he loves bimbos , which is something the audience really doesn't need to know . 
everything about possessed by the night is second rate , even the film credits . 
as the names of the not-so-talented film crew scrolled by at the end , joseph scales came up , credited as being " assistsant to foley artist . " 
someone could have used an editor ! 
to be honest , the film is basically an excuse to flash frontal nudity and show some sex scenes . 
playboy playmate shannon tweed , after all , is the star here . 
i suppose that if one wanted this sort of thing , he would like this movie . 
why did i give this turkey two stars and not one ? 
as a bad movie , it is unintentionally funny enough to keep someone passingly interested in the film . 
if you feel possessed to see possessed by the night , however , i'd recommend you exorcise this impulse and watch something else .
0	0	writing a screenplay for a thriller is hard . 
harder than pouring concrete under the texas sun . 
harder than building a bridge over troubled waters . 
and incidentally , a whole heck of a lot harder than writing a movie review . 
thrillers are all variations on a theme . 
you have a smart , resourceful , and powerful bad guy , who has a goal he has to meet . 
you have a noble and brave good guy , who has to protect the innocent , kill the bad guy , and not get killed himself in the process . 
the trick of thriller writing is doing all of this in an interesting and novel manner . 
this simple formula can lead to classic movies like north by northwest , high noon , or silence of the lambs , or big summer blockbusters like men in black , the fugitive , or air force one , or it can lead to utter dreck like masterminds , event horizon , kull the conqueror . . . . 
is anyone else getting depressed here ? 
point is , it's not enough to follow the formula . 
you've got to throw in something extra , something good and new and better than the last version . 
something to surprise and move all of us people who buy the tickets and the popcorn and the happy meals . 
this is a hard thing to do , but it is absolutely necessary in every way . 
without that something extra -- whether it's a great plot or a well-written screenplay , or great special effects or great locations or great casting or great performances or great big hungry dinosaurs -- the movie fails . 
that's why the jackal , with all its starpower , with all its budget , with all its hype , gets a big fat f . 
bruce willis is the bad guy , the jackal , a legendary killer for hire . 
richard gere is the good guy , a former ira assassin with a vendetta against the jackal . 
the jackal is trying to kill someone . 
gere is trying to stop him . 
will gere be able to stop the assassination in time and kill the jackal ? 
 ( i'll give you three guesses , and the first two don't count . ) 
there are no surprises awaiting the audience in the jackal , no moment when you say to yourself , " i wonder what happens next ? " 
the script for the jackal isn't ripped straight from today's headlines . 
it's ripped off , straight from an episode of millennium . 
throughout the movie , we learn what the jackal's plans are and how he intends to accomplish them . 
no surprise . 
the fun of a movie like this should come from richard gere figuring out what the jackal's plan is and developing a clever plan to foil the bad guy . 
instead , we get two ( count 'em , two ) scenes where gere is sitting in an fbi conference room somewhere and instantly divines the jackal's plan just as if he's frank black ( or more likely , just as if he's been handed a copy of the script ) . 
and we never get more than a superficial clue as to why gere has had this flash of insight . 
it's like gere's character is psychic , but neither he nor the fbi ( or the screenwriters ) seem to know it . 
and just like in millennium , the bad guy has an overwhelming need to go after the people the good guy cares about , whether or not they are important to what he's trying to do or not . 
what's more , in the last half of the movie , the jackal , supposedly a super-smart professional terrorist who never makes a mistake , comes down with a major case of the stupids . 
as for the performances . . . 
bruce willis manages to get through the whole movie without a wisecrack , which is a major achievement , but not enough reason to see the movie . 
his disguises are good , but not as good or as interesting as val kilmer's in the saint . 
richard gere is made to talk the entire movie in an irish accent , which detracts from his otherwise lifeless and dull performance . 
sidney poitier is probably the most disappointing element in a overwhelmingly disappointing movie -- not that his performance is bad or anything , it's not , but it is sad that hollywood won't use this talented actor in any part other than an fbi agent ( shoot to kill , sneakers ) . 
writing a good plot and a good screenplay , like i said , is hard , but it can be done . 
it wasn't done here . 
it is our job as consumers to reward good screenplays and to denounce bad and uninteresting ones . 
do not go see this movie . 
you'll only encourage the producers to make more just like it . 
instead , stay home and rent day of the jackal , or in the line of fire , or a fire safety video , for crying out loud . 
anything other than the jackal , which lives up to its name by gnawing the dead bones of other , better movies .
0	0	" tarzan and the lost city " is one of the most anemic movies to come out in quite a while . 
not only it is poorly written , badly acted , and generally incompetent in all cinematic areas , it is thoroughly uninspired and insipid . 
unfortunately , it's not bad in the way great , colossal misfires like " heaven's gate " ( 1980 ) or " ishtar " ( 1987 ) were bad . 
instead , it literally drips off the screen like a movie nobody wanted to be associated with , which begs the question of why it was made in the first place . 
with all the good scripts lying around hollywood un-produced , how does needless drek like this make its way to the big screen ? 
of course , tarzan is one of the most filmed characters in all of motion picture history - he has appeared in over forty films , which have ranged from the very good ( 1984's " greystoke : the legend of tarzan , lord of the apes " ) down to the really bad ( 1981's " tarzan , the ape man " with bo derek ) . 
most of these films were just cheapie b-movies made in the thirties and forties , starring ex-olympic athletes and a lot of cutsie chimps . 
therefore , if another tarzan movie is to be made , one might assume that it would have something new to offer - a different angle , an original storyline , anything to set it apart from all the others . 
 " greystoke " added a never-before-seen level of realism to the pulpy tale , and even " tarzan , the ape man " at least had the mis-guided audacity to sexualize the story as a vehicle for bo derek's bare breasts . 
 " tarzan and the lost city , " on the other hand , has absolutely nothing to offer but a bunch of recycled storylines and bad dialogue . 
the script , by bayard johnson and j . anderson black is about as formulaic and generic as they come . 
comic books have better plots than this . 
the movie is so bad , in fact , that it retains that ridiculous tarzan call that was so tirelessly mocked in last summer's comedy " george of the jungle . " 
didn't the producers think to leave that back in the old weissmuller pictures where it belongs ? 
the story starts with the legend of tarzan already firmly established : a quick opening narration tells of tarzan ( casper van dien ) being found in the jungle after having been raised by apes , and his return to england where he assumes his greystoke heritage . 
when the movie starts in 1913 , he is a civilized english gentleman ( without an english accent ) , and he is to marry jane ( jane march ) in less than a week . 
however , when a wicked archeologist/grave-robber named nigel ravens ( steve waddington ) begins hunting for the fabled lost city of opar , one of africa's last great secrets , the witch doctor of an ancient african tribe summons tarzan back to the jungle . 
at first , jane refuses to go , pouting about how it will interfere with their wedding ; but after tarzan leaves she changes her mind and tracks him down , therefore assuring lots of lame smooch scenes between her and her ape-man . 
once the film gets going ( in its own sluggish way ) , it delves into a series of jungle adventures , as tarzan , jane , and the natives attempt the thwart ravens and his crew from discovering the city . 
most of the so-called adventures are cheesy , predictable , and unexciting , with no pace , tension , or action to speak of . 
there are sequences stolen from innumerable recent adventure movies , ranging from " raiders of the lost ark " ( 1981 ) to " the goonies " ( 1985 ) . 
when the movie is running short on action , it includes a few greenpeace-friendly scenes of tarzan freeing caged animals , releasing a baby elephant from a trap , and throwing ivory tusks into the river . 
the movie is also lacking even a remote hint of reality . 
for instance , when tarzan - who was raised in the jungle - is bit by a cobra , he doesn't even attempt to suck the venom out like any semi-experienced weekend backpacker would do . 
instead , he ties a tourniquet around his arm and stumbles off into the jungle with no plan for survival . 
of course , one can't help but notice how fundamentally misleading the title is . 
not to ruin the ending or anything , but there is no lost city . 
there is , however , a lost pyramid , which i suppose is all the resource-strapped fx department could come up with ( the special effects are not worthy of a made-for-tv movie ) . 
which also brings up the question of why the treasure hunters had to slog through numerous underground caverns to get to the lost pyramid , when it's sitting right out in the middle of an open field ? 
strictly speaking , " tarzan and the lost city " isn't even bad enough to have camp quality , although casper van dien's laughably stiff performance comes real close . 
this movie proves what " starship troopers " only hinted at : he cannot act , but he sure looks well-groomed , even in the deepest heart of the african jungle . 
van dien is much too much of a pretty-boy to be an effective tarzan ; he's a calvin klein model in a loin cloth . 
i also wondered what the make-up department was thinking when it outfitted him with that awful circa-1983 steve perry haircut . 
waddington makes a decent villain , although he's like a charmless version of belloq from " raiders of the lost ark . " as jane , the ex-model jane march has little to do but smile and look pretty next to tarzan . 
she does fire off a gun at the evil treasure hunters a time or two , but whenever a snake comes into the picture , she is reduced to a hysterical mess . 
however , amidst all this complaining , i do have one piece of good news . 
 " tarzan and the lost city " is so lacking in ideas both new and old , that it is unable to fill even an hour and a half of celluloid . 
so , we can say this much for it : at least it had the decency to be short .
1	0	with the sudden liberal emergence of personal privacy abounding in the news lately , what with that whole clinton thing going on ( you know , 100 million bucks to discover the president got boinked by an intern - oh , please , government , waste my taxes just a bit more , would you ? ) , 
it's about time tony scott helmed the newest action pic disguised as an important if not slightly ignorant social statement . 
with this and " crimson tide , " he's created two successfully chilly films that are interesting , exciting , even pretty smart , but never totally riveting as cinema , and the problem i think with each of these films is that each film is too obsessed with its message to ever be really satisfying , and too obsessed with looking all cutting edge to ever be totally smart . 
that film dealt with a civil war inside a nuclear submarine over whether or not to follow rules or question them , and was appropriately scary and all , but never totally thrilling or overly brilliant . 
 " enemy of the state " is the same way : it's engrossing for its entire running time , and it's scary the way that it shows a man's decent into kafkaism , but it's too technical . 
it's too cold and not as fascinating or exciting as it could be . 
it casts will smith , one of the better big budget leading men in movies these days because he's charming and witty and never uninteresting , and hopes that his charisma can make up for his character not being well developed enough to really be a person . 
i hate to do this , but last year's film " the game " got it damn perfect : it casts michael douglas as a deeply flawed human being , a man who is cold and has cut off everyone from his life , and then pulls everything he thought he had as a security blanket away from him and watched what happened . 
the result was not only a film that was exciting and chilling , but also the best mindfuck of the entire year . 
not that i want every kafkaesque film to be " the game " ( this year's " the spanish prisoner " succeeds with less thrills and chills ) , but it should be an example of what works and what doesn't . 
will smith's character is , frankly , too perfect , at least too movie perfect . 
he had an affair with another woman ( lisa bonet , ha ha ) , but his relationship with his wife ( regina king ) is basically fine regardless . 
he has a kid , and he's raking in money as a lawyer , albeit a very good and reasonably moral one . 
so he generally doesn't have any real problems as a human being , and is therefore boring . . . except that he is played by will smith , who embodies him with about as much will smith charm as he can without entering " id4 " / " men in black " territory . 
he's a good dramatic actor ( just see the first half hour of " six degrees of separation " for proof of this , not that he isn't great the whole time ) , and here , he makes his character likable and sympathetic without any real strain on his character , which makes the film lack any real deep interesting qualities . 
smith becomes involved in a mass conspiracy involving the assasination of a senator opposed to a government law that would create world surveillance , extinguishing privacy as we know it from the world , under the pretense that it would make crime easier to control , when he is passed a disk of the event caught on tape by an outside party ( a nature observer played by , uh , jason lee ) . 
the government wants the disk , and is prepared to destroy his life to get it . 
as smith's plight is dramatized , we are introduced to the masterminds who surveillance him , sitting in vans disguised as other businesses , staring at computers and pulling out tricks faster than a speeding bullet . 
these guys ( played by jack black , jamie kennedy , and seth green ) are the most interesting part of this film because they're , well , fascinating : they're doing their jobs , which are evil , but the film doesn't view them as such , and they almost become our friends . 
we like these guys for the sole reason that the film doesn't automatically judge them as the villains . 
they're also scary because we get the idea that they're not fully aware of the impact their jobs have on the world . 
it's as if they're obsessed with their jobs , not because they're evil , but because , hey , it's a fun job , and no one else can do it like them . 
unfortunately , this also backfires a bit on the film : instead of being the flashlight in the darkened room that " the game " was , you see everything , and are thus not as freaked out because you know what is going on . 
sure , you're chilled , but you're not exacty freaked out by what's going on . 
but what do you expect from tony scott , the man who never met a five-second piece of film he ever liked . 
he's a not-bad director because , hell , he is always interesting to watch ( if not occasionally moronic - exhibit a : " days of thunder " ) , but the reason he's not great is because he's too technical and calculated . 
his shots are perfectly executed , and leave nothing to the imagination , and they're always making sure you're paying attention . 
this is incredibly annoying , and it reduces " enemy of the state " to a mechanical mishmash of flashy images that never expand the mind at any great depths , but still manage to entertain without any real problems . 
despite never actually becoming great , it's never actually boring and it's always intriguing . 
watching the government set-up smith is endlessly fascinating , and since we care about smith's likeable protagonist , we are set-up for a good two hours worth of tom clancy-esque entertainment . 
add the best big cast this side of the annual woody allen film ( everyone from gabriel byrne to dan butler pop up for cameos ) , and you've got a good old fashioned escapist drama which does all the thinking for you so that you never have to actually question the debate over personal privacy and so you can follow will smith's plight without a minute's worth of boredom .
1	1	i remember seeing the trailer of the black cauldron on the pinocchio video . 
it really scared me , and i didn't want to go see it . 
however , after i heard about how wonderful it was , i wanted to see it . 
i didn't get a chance to do so , until now . 
the film , disney's 25th animated feature , opens with a menacing shot of a great black cauldron unshrouded by mist as a narrator begins to tell the tale : a long time ago in the land of prydain , there was a king so evil , that his spirit was captured in the cauldron . 
it has been hidden for centuries , and whoever possesses it will have the power to conjure up an army of deathless warriors , and with them rule the world ? and destroy it . 
then , we meet a farmer-wizard , dallben , and his young apprentice , taran . 
taran dreams of being a warrior instead of being a `pig-keeper' ( they have a pig named hen-wen ) . 
one day , as he gives hen wen a nice warm bath , the pig goes crazy , and dallben then realizes , after watching hen wen's thoughts through a bucket of water , that taran must hide hen wen in the forest . 
an evil ruler known as the horned king is searching for the black cauldron , and only hen wen has the power to show its location . 
taran leads hen wen into the forest , but of course , he loses her , and tries to go find her . 
along the way , he meets up with a mischievous little creature named gurgi , who desires `munchings and crunchings' , much to his dismay ( besides , he stole an apple that taran was trying to use to bring back hen wen ) . 
when he hears hen wen's squeal from far away , though , he races to her rescue ? only to see her get kidnapped by dragonlike gwythants . 
taran chases after the gwythants and finds himself staring at the horned king's castle from far away . 
taran climbs the castle walls , and brings himself into the castle , where he attempts to rescue hen wen . 
he manages to do so , but he is himself captured and thrown into the dungeon . 
there , he meets princess eilonwy ( and her magic bauble , another thing which the horned king was hoping to use to find the cauldron ) , and the two escape through the deep castle walls . 
along the way , taran finds a sword in a burial chamber , and they rescue a comic bard named fflewdurr flamm , who has a harp whose strings break whenever he tells a lie . 
the three manage to escape the horned king's castle , but not before taran realizes that his sword is magic . 
as they rest in the forest , gurgi reappears , claiming to have found hen wen's trail . 
he leads taran , eilonwy and fflewdurr , by way of `pig tracks' , to a whirlpool . 
suddenly , they all get sucked under , and they meet the fairy-like fairfolk . 
taran is reunited with hen wen , and informed that the black cauldron is hidden in the land of morva . 
he then devises a crazy idea that if they can destroy the cauldron , it would prevent the horned king from destroying their world . 
with the help of a grumpy fairy named doli , the four travelers manage to find themselves at a mysterious cottage . 
it turns out to be no ordinary cottage ; three comically strange witches inhabit the place . 
when taran tells them that they are searching for the black cauldron , they agree to let him have it ? in exchange for his sword . 
taran agrees , much to eilonwy's horror , but at least they get the black cauldron . 
but ? the cauldron can't be destroyed , only its evil powers can be stopped . 
the only way to do so is for a living being to climb into it of his own free will ? never to return alive . 
things take a turn for the worse when the horned king's henchmen capture taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr , along with the black cauldron , and lead them back to the castle . 
taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr watch in horror as the horned king unleashes the supernatural powers of the cauldron to ressurect his army of deathless warriors ( this is the most horrifying scene in the film , because here , a dead army comes alive ? ) . 
just when all seems lost , though , gurgi reappears , and rescues taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr . 
taran is about to jump into the black cauldron , but gurgi stops him , not wanting him to throw his life away . 
gurgi then jumps into the black cauldron , and the deathless warriors decay . 
taran tries to find a way to rescue gurgi , but he is forced to do battle against the horned king . 
he kicks the horned king away , who is then magically sucked into the black cauldron , where its powers immediately destroy him completely . 
taran , eilonwy , and fflewdurr manage to escape from the horned king's castle just as it self-destructs . 
the witches then reappear and attempt to take the now useless black cauldron away , but fflewdurr stops them , saying that they `never give anything away , they bargain' . 
in response to this , the witches offer taran his sword back , but taran instead has a new trade : the cauldron for gurgi . 
the trade is made ; gurgi's seemingly lifeless body reappears before the heartbroken group . 
as taran cradles him in his arms , though , gurgi stirs-he is not dead after all ! 
the happy group then returns home , where hen wen ( brought home by the fairfolk once the dangers are past ) , dallben , and even doli , await their triumphant return . 
as spectacular as it sounds , the black cauldron really suffered a lot in its past times . 
before ron miller was fired from his position as chairman of walt disney productions , he had bought a novel by lloyd alexander called the black cauldron , a sword and sorcery tale for the studio . 
bringing this book to the screen was the studio's fondest dream . 
miller , who entitled himself as the executive producer , promised that they would do so after they had proved themselves on other projects . 
when micheal eisner and his executives arrived at the disney animation studio , the animators were struggling to complete the black cauldron . 
by this time , things had gone really rocky for the animation department . 
many of the studio's old men had retired or died . 
therefore , the animators suffered a hard time making this film . 
originally budgeted at $25 million , the costs raised to $40 million because of constant changes on everything ? and when it was finally released on june 24 , 1985 , the black cauldron was greeted by praising reviews from some critics , but somehow the film flopped . 
the film was rated pg and the film , although `disneyfied' from lloyd alexander's chronicles of prydain ( which is what this film is based on ) , was much more scarier and darker than disney's other previous efforts , such as the rescuers and the fox and the hound , which is probably why so many people considered it too scary and stayed away from it . 
in addition , other critics rejected it for having `no heart' and `unmemorable' , compared to other disney animated features . 
but whatever the real reason , the black cauldron was a financial disaster , grossing only $21 million . 
the failure of the film grounded the studio's animation department , and exiled the animation team to annex buildings in nearby glendale , and it seemed like animated features would no longer become a part of the studio's reputation . 
the next two disney animated features , the great mouse detective and oliver and company , although a little more lighthearted than the black cauldron , didn't do much better ( although oliver and company grossed much more than the black cauldron and the great mouse detective ) . 
only with the little mermaid did the studio regain its reputation for successful animated features . 
as for the black cauldron , it was rereleased in some cities for a temporary time under the title taran and the magic cauldron . 
finally , the studio locked the film in the film vault and denied that it ever even was released . 
because of all this , you might ask yourself , was the black cauldron really such a bad movie ? 
the people who had seen the film didn't think so . 
in fact , many people had calls to buena vista home video requesting for the film , but of course , they denied it . 
for a while , it seemed like the black cauldron would never be released to video ? until september 1997 , disney released the black cauldron to video in the united kingdom . 
few people imported the video from england and converted to ntsc ( including me ) and for those who hadn't seen the film yet ( i am included here ) , they got quite a treat . 
but people who had bootleg copies of the black cauldron noticed that in the scene where the horned king raises his army of deathless warriors , about 12 seconds of ghoulish looking skeletons were slightly trimmed so that the film would get a u rating ( in the uk , the u rating means universal : suitable for all ages , kinda like their own version of g ) . 
somewhere online , a team of diehard the black cauldron fans signed a petition that said , `bring back the black cauldron ! ' , and because of that , disney finally decided to release the video to the united states . 
before that time , rumors online had been made that the video would be trimmed , like the uk video , so that it would get a g rating , and that they would add in songs . 
those rumors were put to rest when the walt disney company announced that the black cauldron * would * be released in its pg rated version . 
even still , when it was finally released to the us , some reaction was mixed . 
some felt that it was indeed cut , but some felt that it wasn't . 
but these where only minor criticisms which seemed laughable , since a film that was absent for thirteen years was finally available . 
as for myself , when i saw the movie for the first time ( on converted ntsc video ) , i didn't expect much at all . 
in fact , i had heard so many mediocre things about it , that i didn't think the film would ever be such a good film . 
much to my surprise , when i saw the first few minutes of the film , i was asking myself , " this is the same film everyone saw ? 
the one that flopped at the box office ? 
the one that critics and filmgoers alike called " a bad movie " ? 
this doesn't seem like all of the above . 
instead , it's a classic in its own right . 
the film has a wonderful cast of characters . 
there's taran ( grant bardsley ) , an assistant pig keeper who would rather be a warrior than a pig-keeper , the story's hero . 
the critics have said that taran is not likeable at all , but the opposite is true . 
he is brave , loyal , and eventually learns a lesson about friendship later on . 
there's a likeable character here ! 
not that he's the only likeable character in the film . 
there's gurgi ( john biner ) , a lovable little , uh , thing who remains loyal to taran , even though they don't quite hit it off at first . 
but another likeable character is the bad guy comic henchman , a dwarf named creeper ( phil fondacairo ) , who is loyal to the film's imaginative and sinister villain , the horned king ( voiced gruesomely by john hurt ) , yet he also fears his neck . 
the other characters , including the sidekicks , a spunky , but sweet princess named eilonwy and the comic bard fflewdurr flamm , and three comically wicked witches who hide a dark secret , although pleasant and likeable , aren't quite as well rounded as they should be . 
the story itself is an adventurous one , a quest involving the mystical pig , hen wen , the black cauldron itself , and an army of deathless ones with everything : a hooking opening to a spectacular finale . 
elmer bernstein's music also tells the story perfectly , in a dark , yet calming manner . 
the animation itself is surprisingly good considering that this film was created in the darkest time of the studios . 
even though there are some occasional effects that are not quite good , like the ground opening when the black cauldron rises out of the earth , the animation overall is top notch . 
overall ? this film is an entertaining endeavor . 
fans unfamiliar to the lloyd alexander chronicles of prydain will get a kick out of this one , except young kids . 
there are some extremely scary scenes which are more darker than disney's other films ( although some consider the stampede sequence from the lion king and frollo observing esmeralda in the fires of hell in the hunchback of notre dame are just as scary ) , which is the main reason why this film is rated pg . 
fans familiar to the lloyd alexander series will recognize the differences between the novel and the movie . 
even though it doesn't have all of the ingredients of a true disney film , this film is a classic in its own right , and deserves a far better chance than what it has been given . 
that better chance has finally come . 
whatever reason about why the black cauldron was such a big failure seems to have disappeared , and the film has finally achieved its place among disney's most proudest achievements . 
i can't help but think though , whatever would have happened if the black cauldron * was * a box office success ?
0	0	in " the 13th warrior , " arab poet ahmed ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) finds himself kicked out of baghdad for feeling up the king's old lady . 
with his translator ( screen legend omar sharif in a small role ) , ahmed heads north to act as ambassador to the northmen ( vikings ) . 
he finds a group of warriors mourning the loss of their king . 
a messenger soon arrives from another kingdom requesting assistance . 
a soothsayer says that thirteen warriors must answer the summons , twelve northmen and one outsider . 
thus , ahmed becomes the " 13th warrior . " 
on the trip , ahmed manages to learn the vikings' language by listening to their fireside conversations . 
a bit far-fetched , it's true , but we have to swallow it if this flick is going to manage a few lines of dialogue amidst the grunting . 
ahmed , who's called " ibn " by the vikings , forms friendships with herger the joyous ( dennis storh ? i ) and the viking leader buliwyf ( vladimir kulich ) . 
when they arrive in the other kingdom , the thirteen warriors discover that they're facing an army of supernatural cannibals that live up in the caves . 
hereafter , most of the movie is battle scenes : the cannibals attack the vikings , the vikings attack the cannibals , the cannibals attack the . 
 . 
 . 
well , you get the idea . 
just to add some action , there's also a viking vs . viking duel . 
other movies insert scenes between the fights ; these scenes are called character development . 
i suspect that " the 13th warrior " had a better script at one time and that it fell through the cracks because of the tag-team direction . 
the movie started off in the hands of john mctiernan ( you'll notice a lot of similarities between " warrior " and mctiernan's " predator , " including the chittering jungle sounds ) . 
somewhere along the line , mctiernan bailed and michael crichton took over . 
crichton , whose novel " eaters of the dead " is the basis for " warrior , " has directed a small assortment of goofy science-fiction " thrillers " : " westworld , " " coma , " " looker , " " runaway . " 
their result of their consecutive efforts is a murky and pointless movie . 
perhaps what " the 13th warrior " needs more than anything else is a villain . 
the " eaters of the dead " are a faceless mob in blackface . 
they have no personality , and by the end they don't even seem particularly threatening . 
the audience has no target toward which to channel its aggression . 
mctiernan should know about the importance of an interesting villain ; it was his " die hard " that made villains seem fun and attracted big-name stars to the evil roles in action films . 
 " the 13th warrior " suffers from a lack of vision . 
it wants to be " predator " meets " braveheart " meets " the magnificent seven " meets " dances with wolves . " 
with so many competing goals , all it can do is echo what it might have been . 
it might have been a satisfying action film . 
it might have been a beautifully-rendered medieval epic . 
it might have been a thought-provoking examination of the meeting of cultures . 
what a shame it turned out to be nothing in particular . 
bottom line : if you want to see antonio swing his sword , rent " the mask of zorro . "
1	1	every once in a while , a film sneaks up on me and takes me completely by surprise . 
i don't necessarily mean in terms of quality ; rather , i'm referring to the mere knowledge of its existence . 
usually i know what films are on the way a year in advance , but two weeks ago i had never heard of princess caraboo . 
it has slipped rather quietly into limited release , and appears destined to slip out just as quietly . 
that's a shame , because princess caraboo is a delightful fable , romantic , gentle and very appealing . 
what's more , it's surprisingly insightful and provides a sharp-witted lesson in english social history . 
princess caraboo is based on an actual event in early 19th century england , involving a young woman ( phoebe cates ) who is found wandering the countryside . 
apparently unable to speak any english , she is taken in by good-hearted gentlewoman mrs . worrall ( wendy hughes ) . 
her banker husband ( jim broadbent ) is none-too-pleased about this strange houseguest , until the worralls begin to believe that the woman may be royalty from an east indian island , the princess caraboo . 
this development inspires plans for a lucrative trading venture for mr . worrall , and an introduction into elite social circles for mrs . worrall . 
however , local journalist john gutch ( stephen rea ) is not convinced that the woman is what she seems to be , and sets out to find out the truth about princess caraboo . 
as a social satire and comedy of manners , princess caraboo is a winner . 
it takes place in an era when it was common practice in england to jail vagrants and hang beggars , and that practice comes in for an obvious hazing . 
but it is handled most effectively through the character of mr . worrall , a drunken womanizer whose bank is in deep trouble thanks to his corruption and ineptitude . 
he is worse than one of the idle rich ; he is one of the actively odious gentry so eager to distance themselves from the lower class they think nothing of simply eliminating them , and since the house and money are all from mrs . worrall , he is a bit too close to them for comfort . 
while hypocrisy is an easy target for ridicule , director and co-writer michael austin keeps the treatment too light-hearted to be heavy-handed . 
he also takes a unique stab at the trendiness of the upper classes , as the princess becomes a " sensation " at court . 
in one of the film's best sequences , princess caraboo is the guest of honor at a party hosted by the prince regent ( a wonderfully foppish turn by comic john sessions ) , and the lords and ladies end up following her around in a thoroughly silly native dance . 
it is then that princess caraboo shows how easily people are swept up in " sensations , " an idea that takes on a timeless quality ( and makes the film an interesting companion piece to the current quiz show ) . 
social commentary aside , princess caraboo is simply an eminently enjoyable entertainment . 
the performers are mostly delightful , particularly phoebe cates , who is radiant in a part that requires a gift for pantomime . 
her supporting players are also appealing : wendy hughes as the patient and kindly mrs . worrall ; kevin kline as frixos , the worralls' suspicious and superior greek butler ; stephen rea as the world-weary but ultimately romantic gutch . 
only john lithgow is a disappointment , turning in a limp performance as a scholar who attempts to verify the princess's identity . 
the story twists and turns just enough so that the question of whether or not the princess is really a princess is always in some doubt , without becoming gimmicky . 
it is unfortunate that the growing attraction between gutch and princess caraboo isn't given more time to develop , because the potential seemed to be there . 
when it finally does blossom , it seems too quick to be plausible . 
princess caraboo is patient enough in establishing its sense of time and place that it might seem a bit slow to viewers seeking a fantasy romp . 
still , it has both escapist and intellectual appeal , and is well worth seeking out . 
it is the kind of film that makes my job its most rewarding--a hidden gem .
0	0	tim burton has now completed his evolution from the brilliant director of macabre stories about outcast individuals yearning for acceptance , and into a studio monkey whose name is used as part of multi-tiered marketing materials for crap movies . 
and here he hits rock bottom , with planet of the apes . 
i didn't expect much from this latest " interpretation " of pierre boulle's classic novel planet of the apes . 
i mean , how could you top the force and impact of the original film , intelligently co-scripted by rod serling ( of twilight zone fame ) combined with the overbearing chuck heston growling and yelling at those " damn dirty apes , " in one of his best roles of his career ? 
sadly , i sat down to watch burton's version of planet of the apes and within the first 20 minutes , i was checking my watch and my girlfriend ( a big fan of the original film ) started to nod off . 
this time around , the story plays out like a cross between enemy mine , braveheart , and project x . marky mark wahlberg , who was enjoyable in boogie nights and the corrupter , plays leo davidson , a hot shot u . s . air force pilot . 
leo and his crew are in search of some mysterious magnetic storms ( no real explanation given in the film ) and leo sends one of his genetically altered " smart " chimps into the storms to collect data . 
leo and his crew lose communication with the chimp , leo hops in another ship to find the monkey , and then he's thrown through some type of time-space wormhole which crashes lands on the twentieth century fox studio backlot , all mocked up to look like the amazon jungle . 
leo ends up getting captured by a group of talking apes and is sold to a slave trader named limbo ( paul giamatti ) who in turn sells leo to a chimpanzee named ari ( helena bonham carter ) . 
the kind ari then helps leo and his fellow humans escape to the mountains to find leo's ship . 
along the way , monkeys played by tim roth ( overacting his role of a vicious general named thade ) and michael clarke duncan ( who further enhances his career by playing another heavy in a bad action movie ) strive out to hunt down leo and his band of human savages , just like battlefield earth ! 
in the end , it all culminates into another braveheart rip-off human versus ape battle scene . 
while rick baker's makeup work is amazing , the script is a pathetic hodgepodge ( courtesy of three writers ) , the acting is horrible , and the " surprise " ending feels like a swing from a ball-peen hammer into the temple . 
wahlberg does not have the physical or mental presence of a chuck heston to carry the film or any of its action sequences . 
this remake , or re-interpretation , as tim burton has proclaimed it , is an insult to the intelligence and wit of the original film . 
the ethical arguments about the equality of species , fascism , and military buildup have been replaced by tremendous amounts of ridiculous dialogue , an unimaginative narrative structure , and a romance between a monkey and a human . 
even chuck heston's anti-gun tirade ( in the de rigeur cameo ) seems shallow and jokey . 
but the main element missing from this tim burton film is tim burton . 
even though his name is plastered across every billboard in america , john badham could have directed this film . 
even joel schumacher could have directed this film . 
he probably should have . 
burton's predominant themes of rejection , isolation , and the search for one's place in the universe , as seen in ed wood , edward scissorshands , and pee-wee's big adventure , are completely absent in this planet . 
i suppose that's what happen when a great director gets sucked through a wormhole .
0	0	a number of critics have decided that it's open season on freddie prize jr . , slamming the young actor as an utterly talentless pretty boy on career cruise control in sound-alike , disposable teen fluff like " head over heels , " " boys and girls , " " down to you " and " she's all that . " 
while the prinze oeuvre is hard to defend , his talent is not . 
i first saw him in the independent dark comedy " the house of yes , " where he gave a subtle , impressive performance as the younger brother in one of america's freakiest families . 
prinze has the acting chops ; he just needs to take a few supporting roles in some grown-up movies to show the non-believers that he has what it takes . 
 " summer catch " certainly won't help his case . 
inoffensive , but utterly generic , the baseball-related romantic comedy does little more than kill time . 
the story deals with the love affair between tenley ( jessica biel ) , a wealthy cape cod girl and ryan ( prinze ) , a local boy from a working class family who dreams of becoming a big-time baseball star . 
ryan's preoccupation with his new honey-bunny drives her elitist father ( bruce davison ) crazy and endangers his position as pitcher with a cape cod summer league team . 
it's a wonder the kid has any time to pitch , as his time is occupied with making out with tenley , fighting with her dad , bonding with his own dad ( fred ward , who deserves better than this ) , fighting with his brother ( jason gedrick ) and carousing at a neighborhood bar with his teammates . 
the filmmakers desperately want to make a quirky , character-heavy baseball movie like " bull durham , " but haven't got a clue how to get there . 
and so they glide from one clich ? to the next for 108 minutes . 
the only bit of originality comes from marc blucas in a minor role as a center-fielder from texas . 
in an early barroom scene , blucas , best known as demon-fighting riley finn from " buffy the vampire slayer , " hears a young woman compliment a guy on his ass , then turns to teammate matthew lillard and states , " he does have a nice ass . 
a bubble butt . " 
when lillard gives him an " are you insane ? " 
look , blucas calmly says , " it's nothing sexual , " then goes on to evaluate the hind-ends of some other players , including lillard's . 
speaking of asses , prinze does not bare his in the movie . 
the actor has a no nudity clause in his contract , so two stunt-butts were employed for a couple of semi-nude shots . 
blucas , whose character secretly dates a large woman throughout the story , gets another unique moment late in the film . 
sick of hearing teammates make " fat chick " jokes , he climbs on top of a table and loudly declares his love of amply-sized ladies . 
while his speech still ends up objectifying women , it remains a nice change of pace in a numbingly ordinary movie . 
trivial tidbit : " summer catch " marks a scooby doo summit . 
marc blucas appears in " jay and silent bob strike back " as fred from the scooby doo gang , while freddie prinze jr . plays the same character in the upcoming big budget film version of the old cartoon .
1	1	i actually am a fan of the original 1961 or so live-action-disney flick of the same name starring hayley mills twice as a pair of twins , separated at birth by divorcing parents , never to come in contact with the other so the parents never have to meet again . 
and everyone should know how i feel about remakes , especially of films i happen to enjoy ( my fallacy : unless you're going to either capture the same exact spirit of the original or do something different with it or maybe even both , just wrack your brain and come up with a * gasp * new idea ) . 
this remake was not originally on the top of my viewing list , and was actually quite the opposite . 
contemporary live-action-disney films are not one of my favorties , anyway : they're usually unfunny , alienating , and a big fat bore , at least to anyone over the age of 11 and above the iq of 10 . 
this one , however , is shockingly not bad . 
in fact , it's actually good . 
not the original good , but what's great about it is that it doesn't necessarily retread the original or capture the same exact spirit as it does become entertaining for the same exact reasons the original was entertaining . 
because it's cute and innocent fun . 
because it has a pretty killer plot that is endlessly fun to follow along with . 
because the lead star is immensely appealing . 
because the parents are also immensely appealing . 
and ( i'm repeating myself ) because it's cute and innocent fun . 
there's nothing too risque about it , save the plot ( the idea of separating twins and denying them the truth for years is ominously selfish , but that is precisely the point of the movie ) , and it's aimed directly at either kids , adults who want to remember the original , or young adults who want to remember what it was like to be a kid . 
i , personally , am somewhere between the second and third . 
i can vividly remember when my taste in movies wasn't so weird or diverse ( the names godard and kubrick weren't even a glimmer in my right eye back then ) , when i would tune in every sunday night for a couple years to see abc's " wonderful world of disney , " where they'd show you a live-action and/or made-for-tv disney flick an hour per week . 
i can remember my mom taking my sister and i along with all my friends and their mothers to see all the rereleased disney films ( like " lady and the tramp " and " pinnochio " ) . 
and , most sadly , i remember every single christmas , without fail , there were a barage of children's animated half-hour shows , made exclusively for the christmas season , that i wouldn't dare missing . 
i can even remember seeing the made-for-tv " parent trap ii " on tv one night , and after i had seen that one over and over and over again , i saw the original " parent trap . " 
it's more of a late childhood movie , because it deals with the issue of divorce , but it deals with it in a disney-ized version . 
it's playful , and witty , and charming , and if i saw it for the first time right now , having never experienced that part of my childhood , i'd probably dismiss it . 
i'd probably do the same for the new version of the same movie if i hadn't seen the original at such a perfect age . 
watching it , i could remember what fun it was to watch a disney film , and how divorce for me started to get me thinking about the possibilities of my seemingly-perfect parents splitting up , and how it affected my adolescence . 
and also how it brushed that fear off with a smooth stroke , and pointed out that even in the most fucked-up of situations , things could always work out if you , well , manipulate things a bit , at least for the better . 
this new version did that for me , but it's also charming in its own way . 
it has a new cast , a contemporary feel , and , for the first time in awhile for a live-action-disney flick , a tone that isn't corny or condescending , but just right . 
the moments that would otherwise seem corny are actually affecting in a safe kind of way . 
and for the first time since the original film , the kids actually know better than the foolish adults . 
the story is basically classic by now , repeated almost as many times as kurosawa's " the seven samurai " : a pair of twins ( played here by lindsay lohan , just like they were played by hayley mills in the original ) are separated at birth by their divorcing parents . 
one , annie , is sent to live with the mother ( natasha richardson , resembling her mother , vanessa redgrave , more than i had ever noticed ) in london , where she lives with her parents and her devoted , foppish butler ( simon kunz ) , as she works as a swingin' fashion designer . 
she grows up refined and classy , but also with a keen knowledge in sports and poker-playing . 
the other , hallie , is sent to northern california with her father ( dennis quaid ) to live on a vineyard with their pseudo-maid ( lisa ann walter ) , and grows up rugged yet charming . 
they both meet at the same camp , one that annie wants to go to to become more rugged . 
they feud because they look all-too similar , and are thus in tight competition , which results in some nasty pranks , which winds them in seclusion together in a private , out-of-the-way cabin . 
there , they become friends , then learn about eachother . 
once they know everything , they concoct a scheme to switch places so the one can meet the other parent , whom they've only heard of . 
they learn about eachother's lives in detail , they make sure they look alike ( which requires hair cutting and , notoriously , ear-piercing - a scene which is like the kiddie version of the hypodermic needle scene in " pulp fiction " ) , and when the end of summer comes , they switch and hope for the best . 
lindsay lohan doesn't necessarily copy the acting style of hayley mills in the original . 
but she comes off just as appealing as she did once . 
she does , though , add a couple new things : she makes the california twin a little more appealing and the london twin a bit more frank and snobbish than the snotty and proper original , respectively . 
she also adds on an american and british accent to each one , with one faking the other accent throughout , and if you really take notice , you can see that the fake ones' accents aren't exactly perfect . 
she's also incredibly appealing , not merely cute , which is especially notable since this is her first feature film , and we know how notorious child actors are , especially in their first films . 
she makes a great protagonist , and it only helps that the supporting cast is equally appealing . 
dennis quaid , in fact , hasn't been this likable in about a decade - his big dumb smile and near cocky attitude is what has made him a notable actor in the past , not just that he's mr . meg ryan . 
ditto natasha richardson ( except that she just hasn't ever been this likable period ) . 
the two make a winning couple , maybe not so winning as maureen o'hara and the late brian keith in the original , but they still work for this film . 
instead of the bickering that ensued in the original , the film adds another dimension and another angle to their characters that was amiss in the original : during the opening credits , we see glimpses from their courtship on the qe2 , where they fall quickly and madly in love with eachother , and when back together again , the film's more smarmy scenes come off as actually sentimental , but in that great way , not the migraine-inducing way as in many such films . 
this all brings this new " parent trap " to a level of entertainment that hasn't really existed since , well , the original film years ago , still my money the best live-action-disney flick of all time . 
this is because it has a form of intelligence and wit that makes such plot points as an otherwise standard villainous love interest subplot ( a gold-digging sharon stone type , played by elaine hendrix , who's deliciously tormented by the twins later on in the film ) a treat instead of a bore . 
like the original , this film transcends all the crap that it very well could be ( case in point : " it takes two " starring the olsen twins ) because it treats the children as the smart ones , and the adults as the silly ones , not the other way around . 
and because , above everything , it knows exactly how to be charming without biting off more than it can chew . 
however , in comparison with the original , it could be a bit better . 
certain scenes work well , but not nearly as well as they worked in the original . 
i liked the way the parents fought over past dilemnas and then fought over falling in love again better than i liked watching two old flames getting back together over a bottle of wine - somehow , feuding is always more cinematic and pleasing than mere reminscing , a lesson extracted from the howard hawks/cary grant films of yesteryear . 
and as much as this film transcends mere cutedom , compared to the original , this film almost drowns in cutedom . 
the original , though not gritty , was far more stylized and just as suitable for adult audiences as it was for young audiences . 
as such , this remake may never be nearly as great or classic as the original film , but it at least knows how to treat its source material with dignity and respect , and how to create virtually the same effects without bordering on plagerism or petty annoyances .
1	0	if chris farley had strapped some fake mutton-chop sideburns to each side of his head , spoken with a thick irish accent , and tried his damnedest to play it straight , he wouldn't have been nearly as funny as brendan gleeson in " i went down . " 
gleeson , who's not dissimilar to the late " saturday night live " alumnus in terms of physical attributes , plays a character named bunny kelly in this delightful irish film . 
bunny is sent to county cork to " retrieve " one frank grogan for an irish gangster called tom french ( well dressed like all good gangsters should be and menacingly portrayed by tony doyle ) . 
bunny is to accompany git hynes ( peter mcdonald ) , recently released from prison and obligated to tom for disfiguring one of his cronies . 
that tom french is a mean bollocks . 
he wants frank back . 
and a small matter of some ? 25 , 000 that tom's wife was supposed to have given to frank . 
for this he won't break anyone's thumbs . 
maybe . 
inventively and engagingly written by conor mcpherson and directed by paddy breathnach , " i went down " follows the trials and tribulations of git and bunny as they knock around peat bogs , dimly-lit pubs , and seedy hostelries trying to stay alive and out of trouble . 
mcdonald is a newcomer and a promising one at that , but gleeson has been in over a dozen movies , most recently as father bubbles in another film with a very irish accent on hilarity , " the butcher boy . " 
even if you can't comprehend half of what they're saying , gleeson and mcdonald together make " i went down " a trip worth taking . 
the film is in many ways reminiscent of another " little " independent feature , 1991's " highway 61 . " 
that film , too , was a road movie and it shares the same kind of wry dialogue and humorous situations as mcpherson's tale : whimsical observations on life , carefully-crafted vignettes , deadpan conversational asides , and scenes that'll make you laugh out loud . 
witness the episode in which our good-natured protagonists bind frank ( played by peter caffrey ) to a hotel bed , leaving him with only the tv remote for company . 
that sequence alone is on a par with satan locking himself out of his car in " highway 61 . " 
what's also charming about " i went down " is how the relationship between buddy and git develops . 
their trip becomes an education for both of them , but the way it's handled is neither sappy nor labored . 
the only thing in the film which approaches clunkiness is the culminating explanation , via flashbacks , of the relationship between frank and tom . 
it's a little too hollywood , and what makes " i went down " so refreshing is the fact that it rarely panders to traditional conventions of hollywood gangster movies . 
sure it's gritty--make that grubby--but it's also pretty goofy . 
although " i went down " emphasizes the comedic elements of dis-organized crime , there are a couple of fairly brutal scenes in keeping with the subject matter . 
don't let these deter you , though ; " i went down " is a little gem . 
it's only playing at one philadelphia-area theater--and i suspect it won't be there for long--so catch it while you can .
1	0	susan granger's review of " legally blonde " ( m . g . m . ) 
it's a " pretty in pink " / " clueless " coming-of-age story for the new millennium as elle woods ( reese witherspoon ) , a perky southern california sorority queen , switches from fashion to law in order to win back her yuppy boyfriend ( matthew davis ) . 
the girl-power story begins as this sweetheart of delta nu is unceremoniously dumped by a bonehead who says : " if i'm going to be a senator by the time i'm 30 . . . i 
need to marry a jackie , not a marilyn . " 
determined to prove she's as smart a snobby brunette ( selma blair ) from country-club connecticut , elle not only applies to harvard law school but gets in , much to the amazement of family , friends and faculty . 
once there , this flaxen-haired fish-out-of-water not only survives but tenaciously thrives , befriending a local manicurist ( jennifer coolidge ) , dazzling a professor ( victor garber ) and rescuing a defendant ( ali larter ) in a celebrated boston murder trial , plus finding a more worthy beau ( luke wilson ) . 
in the tradition of teen-comedy film-maker john hughes and his disciple amy heckerling , there's wit , cheerfulness , a fidelity of observation and a penchant for problem-solving . 
first-time feature director robert luketic is blessed with reese witherspoon who's joyously incandescent in this utterly formulaic light comedy written by karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith , based on a soon-to-be-published novel by amanda brown . 
the supporting cast is terrific , particularly raquel welch and holland taylor - and i particularly got a kick out of the gag of elle distributing scented resumes in pink , her signature color on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " legally blonde " is a frivolous , funny , feel-good 8 . 
filled with ditzy blonde ambition , it's a movie for high-school kids that their parents would be happy to have them see .
0	0	the premise of this movie is , well , pretty far-fetched . 
tom berenger plays shale , a mercenary who is temporarily out of work ( those fools at the cia have denied his existence just because he and his buddies botched a job in cuba ) . 
fortunately , his girl friend ( diane venora ) , a teacher at christopher columbus high school in miami , gets her knee cap broken by a disgruntled student , creating a job opening for shale as a substitute teacher . 
not telling his girl friend , who might object on pedagogical grounds , he creates a number of fake higher degrees for himself ( from yale , harvard , princeton , et al ) and begins his tenure as a high school teacher . 
the students ( junkies , drug dealers , gang members , sleazy sluts , ice-pick wielders . . . you 
get the picture ) don't really take to him right away , so he hits one in the face with a can and breaks a few fingers . 
this gets their attention to a certain extent , so he tells them the story of the vietnam war : " see , some homeboys from the north tried to muscle in on the turf of the homeboys from the south . " 
oh yeah , now they can dig it ; the problem is just that nobody ever explained it properly before . 
but wait ! 
there are drugs being dealt in the school itself ! 
and behind the whole scheme , in cahoots with the head gang , the kod ( no , not " cod " , but " knights of destruction " . . . really ! ) , is none other than . . . the 
upright , ex-cop principal , played by the forgotten ghostbuster , ernie hudson ! 
so shale does what any good teacher would do . 
he gets his buddies together , they gather together a bunch of bazookas and other major weapons , explosives , and cool stuff like that , and they have a big showdown against the drug dealers and kod at the high school . 
ok , so the premise is not just far-fetched , it's downright dumb . 
if this were a hong kong action comedy , we might just accept it , but it takes itself far too seriously to be truly fun . 
oh , it has its moments ; how one can truly hate a movie in which huge ( really huge ) amounts of cocaine are delivered in school busses ? 
and to be fair , it is almost never really boring , as the action is interrupted by only short sequences of actual story . 
but over all , this is pretty much a made-for-tv movie with more ( and bigger ) explosions and more foul language . 
in fact , it reminded me of " miami vice " without the production values , babes in skimpy bikinis , and pastels . 
if you can sneak into the theater without paying , go for it . 
otherwise , wait for video . 
the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast . 
 * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha ! 
 * * * pretty good , bring a friend . 
 * * * * amazing , potent stuff . 
 * * * * * perfection . 
see it twice .
1	1	" you've got mail " is the very definition of a " cute " movie . 
it's got cute stars , a cute story-line , and even cute pets . 
despite this over-whelming cuteness ( or maybe because of it ) , i loved " you've got mail " . 
i know , i know . 
i'm supposed to be a film critic . 
i'm not supposed to love transparent and formula pictures like this . 
but darn it , somewhere along the way , " you've got mail " reeled me in , hook , line , and sinker . 
the movie stars tom hanks and meg ryan as two somewhat unhappy new yorkers who meet in an aol online chat room and quickly become close friends , without ever knowing each others identity . 
as the movie progresses , though , they begin to discover that they have a lot in common with each other . 
meanwhile , in " real-life " , they are bitter competitors . 
she owns a quaint little children's bookstore , he owns one of those gigantic super-bookstores that offer impersonal service and discount prices . 
while his store threatens to run her store out of business , their online relationship grows stronger . 
 " you've got mail " is as artificial as movies come . 
everything is nice and happy and by the end , all the characters have gotten exactly what they wanted out of life . 
there are no real conflicts , no major disappointments , no unresolved issues . 
nevertheless , i quite enjoyed it . 
in fact , i can't remember the last time i had such a good time at the movies . 
i think sometimes you have to be able to watch a movie and just get drawn into it . 
the fact that stars hank and ryan are at the top of their game does not hurt either . 
in particular , hanks is at his best here , turning his " charm-meter " up to 11 . 
everytime he was on screen , he had my full attention . 
and despite the fact that he was driving little bookstores out of business , i was rooting for him . 
it was good to see hanks back doing what he does best : playing the affable everyman . 
 " you've got mail " certainly won't be winning any awards , but as an exercise in pure entertainment , it's as good as it gets .
0	1	a new entry in the " revisionist history " genre of filmmaking , dick suggests that two not-too-bright teenage girls are the cause of the uncovering of the nation's biggest presidential scandal . 
kirsten dunst and michelle williams star betsy and arlene , who while trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene's watergate hotel room , accidentally stumble across g . gordon liddy ( played dead-on by harry shearer ) and the infamous break-in . 
when they recognize liddy later on during a white house field trip , they are ushered into a conference room , questioned as to what they know , and leave as official presidential dog walkers . 
the girls manage to unwittingly uncover every bit of the watergate scandal while performing their duties , but have no clue as to what they are getting involved with . 
when they discover that nixon ( another dead-on performance by dan hedaya , who actually favors nixon slightly , unlike anthony hopkins ) has been abusive to checkers , the presidential dog , thanks to the conversations that he always recorded , they quit and become disillusioned . 
during a prank phone call the girls make to woodward and bernstein , events are set into motion that eventually lead to the president's resignation . 
this film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward and bernstein arguing with each other on an obvious larry king-type talk show ( featuring a cameo by french stewart ) about revealing the identity of " deep throat " . 
from there , we are subjected to bodily function humor and just about every bad " dick " joke one can derive from this type of supposed comedy . 
at one point , the girls are having to scream over a high school band playing on the steps of the lincoln memorial . 
the band manages to stop right as dunst screams " you have to stop letting dick run your life ! " 
much to the horror of everyone standing within earshot . 
several other variations on this wordplay surface all throughout the film . 
if this movie had been smarter i would have been less likely to fault it's juvenile bathroom humor , but it's not . 
the film was apparently made for relatively younger people because every major player in the watergate scandal is introduced and shoved down the audience's throat in the least subtle way possible . 
i don't recall oliver stone's nixon having to pander to it's audience , but of course that film wasn't a comedy aimed squarely at a 13-20 year-old film going audience . 
the only redeeming thing about this movie is it's remarkable supporting cast . 
i wanted to see more of ferrell and mcculloch's woodward and bernstein . 
those two characters are the sole basis for my rating . 
i wish they had been given more screen time , but unfortunately , they are only relegated to the final half-hour . 
their constant bickering and fighting over trying to get the story are a major highlight , especially mcculloch's constant thwarting of ferrell's attempts to gather information from the girls ( who , in the course of the narrative are revealed as deep throat , so named thanks to an ill planned trip to a porno theater by betsy's brother ) . 
the other members of the cast are excellent in their portrayals of their particular characters , but are given nothing to work with . 
i'd like to see the same cast portray these characters in a script more suited towards their comedic abilities . 
as for the two leads , dunst and williams can definitely do better . 
they come off as what could best be described as romy and michele : the early years in this particular film , a highly dubious distinction at best . 
stay through the first half of the end credits though , to see an interesting scene involving dunst and williams suggestively sucking on lollipops emblazoned with the title of the movie . 
an excellent idea marred by poor execution , dick could have been a great movie . 
less of the juvenile humor and more of the smarter comedy displayed by the woodward and bernstein scenes , could have made this film a wonderful satire of the nixon presidency as seen through the eyes of two naive fifteen year olds . 
as it stands though , dick offers nothing but what filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as " dick and poopie " jokes . 
and that , to me , does not make a funny movie . 
[pg-13]
0	0	director andrew davis reworks his fugitive formula and the results are about as exciting as his last film-- the dreadful comedy steal big , steal little-- was funny . 
keanu " i'd rather play music than play another action hero " reeves is the grad student on the run , who , along with his superfluous sidekick ( rachel weisz ) , has been framed for a sabotaged science experiment that vaporized eight chicago city blocks . 
 ( the mushroom-cloud explosion is a knock-out and easily the best part of the movie . 
or , as one audience member succinctly summed it up : " whoa . " ) 
false information implicates their involvement and boy and girl are soon on the run , fleeing over open drawbridges , across icy lakes , and through the corridors of power at a top-secret , underground energy facility . 
aiding and abetting is the team's shady mentor , played in an excellent-but-so- what performance by morgan freeman . 
 ( brit brian cox is also about , as the behind-the-scenes bad guy . 
he has some fun fiddling with a southern accent . ) 
unfunny , overscored , and without a single shred of suspense , chain reaction is * the * summer movie to walk out on . 
if you make it to the end , a mess of cross-cutting involving another imminent explosion , you'll hear somebody say " i guess it's time to go . " 
heed that warning .
1	1	" through a spyglass , i could see everything . " 
king louis xvi was beheaded on january 21 , 1793 , but instead of visualizing this act of regicide , legendary auteur eric rohmer's the lady and the duke observes from afar . 
consider it a view to a kill made abstract . 
a proper british ( yes , british ) gentlewoman , grace elliott ( lucy russell ) , and her loyal maidservant gaze from a lofty terrace in meudon at the glistening city of paris , where raucous crowds seem tinier than ants . 
the maid narrates what little she sees of the execution through her telescope ( often muttering , " i don't know , " ) as the sound of cheering patriots and revolutionaries echoes through the air . 
what we don't see might not be able to hurt us . 
just close your eyes and think of england . 
during times of revolution , the aristocracy may feel a false sense of calm in their parlor halls , discussing tumultuous events over glasses of sherry until the walls cave in on them . 
adapted from elliott's memoirs , journal of my life during the french revolution , rohmer's latest artistic tour-de-force may seem far removed from his domestic comedies ( tales of the four seasons , etc . ) , a period film set during the most violent changes in french history . 
resisting the temptation for grand-scale theatrics , much of the lady and the duke is about quiet , decisive moments between members of the cultural elite as they determine how to proceed as the world implodes . 
grace elliott makes for an unlikely protagonist : a headstrong , snobbish blueblood , one unprepared for the machinations of history that sweep her along . 
a foreigner who accepts the french king as her own , grace's life seems defined by fancy attire and lively political debate with her former lover , the king's hot-blooded cousin , prince philipe , duke of orleans ( jean-claude dreyfus ) . 
the times are changing , though , and the gears inch ever closer toward violence . 
during the september massacres of 1792 , she is encountered by a procession of rioters brandishing the head of the duke's sister-in-law on a stake . 
rohmer makes a harsh transition from tranquil , old fashioned , almost stagy parlor scenes to the swell of an angry mob . 
in doing so , he achieves what braveheart and the patriot could not : the face of death . 
when grace sees her friend's disembodied head on a pole , rohmer's attention drifts from the societal change to one woman's reaction shot , laden with hot tears . 
grace finds herself taking in a fugitive from justice , sheltering him from the mob . 
through her relationship with the duke , she seeks a passport for this one activist's escape . 
grace doesn't even understand her own actions ( and the duke reacts in stunned disbelief at how she places herself in such danger ) . 
she endures persecution from robespierre and his gang of thuggish equalizers , ceaseless police monitoring , house searches , even a brief imprisonment for harmless international correspondence . 
maintaining her stiff upper lip and pampered life ( her imperious attitude to the servants never changes ) , she becomes a heroine through circumstance . 
the events themselves are intrusions upon her person , her home , and therefore her values . 
aristocracy proves a glass house , one that can barely withstand the upheaval of stones . 
the duke is called to vote on the king's punishment , and despite his hours of deliberation with friends and advisors , talk means nothing in the face of bloody action ( or futile inaction ) . 
the episodic structure creates a wobbly , jarring detachment from the events of the french revolution , which serves as metaphor but also disconnects potential audience identification . 
lazy viewers ( and critics ) may also complain that knowledge of french history is required for enjoyment of the lady and the duke . 
that's foolery , but brings up the valid criticism that rohmer's characters occasionally become didactic . 
rohmer's imperfect but assured push toward the future remains staunch and notable for casting a cautious eye upon the past while taking bold steps forward into an uncertain future . 
what may arouse interest in the lady and the duke outside of foreign film enthusiasts with literary and historical passions is rohmer's use of cutting edge digital technology as a means of exploring the theme of artifice as safety net or coping mechanism . 
the actors were filmed against a bluescreen , then placed against painted backdrops recreating the vastness of 18th century paris . 
this recreation calls attention to itself in every shot , a technicolor dream of fanciful buildings and wide-open streets . 
it looks as phony as titanic , but unlike james cameron's debacle , the lady and the duke plays with the notion of false security in those walls of stone . 
why ? 
they aren't real . 
the very foundation rohmer's characters stand upon is false , and in their groundlessness they must discover themselves , in all their insubstantial glory . 
screened at the 2001 new york film festival ( feature coming soon ) .
1	1	if you thought baz luhrmann's radical take on _william_shakespeare's_romeo_+_juliet_ was wild , wait until what you see what tony award-winning stage director julie taymor ( _the_lion_king : _the_broadway_musical_ ) does to the bard's _titus_andronicus_ for her audacious--and very bloody--film debut . 
while luhrmann transplanted the star-crossed lovers to 1990s florida , taymor keeps this grisly tale of revenge in rome--but places it in a surreal temporal limbo . 
the colosseum suggests the proper time of imperial rome , but high rises and heavy duty kitchen ovens suggest the 1990s , while the vintage automobiles and some costumes are more '40s and '50s , and other garments are more gladiator-like . 
as tamora , queen of goths ( jessica lange ) exacts revenge on roman general titus ( anthony hopkins ) for killing her eldest son , and he does the same to her for the wrongs she commits , taymor obviously wanted to express the timeless relevance of the story's underlying themes . 
however , the time convergence approach only works at times , for often it's just distracting , as in one scene where tamora's suviving sons ( matthew rhys and jonathan rhys meyers ) blow off steam playing video arcade games . 
taymor didn't have to resort to such avant garde time tricks , for the story would have resonated just as strongly had she jettisoned them . 
she is a strong storyteller and a master visual stylist , the latter compliment encompassing all areas , makeup and costume choices as well as those in the editing and photography departments . 
she also has a sure way with actors ; hopkins' titus is at once tragic and horrifying , and lange is sultry as the viperous tamora . 
the clear standout of the cast , however , is harry lennix as aaron , a moor who is tamora's secret lover and a schemer in his own right . 
lennix brings great depth to a role that could have easily been played as a stock villain . 
a great villain he indeed is , but to leave it at that isn't giving full justice to his powerful and multi-dimensional work . 
_titus_ isn't a complete success , but it is never less than fascinating , and it announces the arrival of a fearlessly imaginative new cinematic voice .
0	0	the most interesting part of " can't hardly wait " just happens to be not only the most human , but for many of us , the one part that many of us can easily relate to . 
that is the character of denise ( lauren ambrose ) , the film's sole sarcastic member who mocks everything that goes on in the film , and at one point sits down on a couch and looks totally bored . 
the film wisely holds over this moment , nicely showing her alienation in the midst of a large high school party . . . almost 
too nicely . 
for some members of the audience ( read : me ) , this is basically a mirror of what's going on with them watching this film . 
we sit there wondering why we've even bothered to see a film about a long high school party we probably never felt the desire to go to in the first place . 
i would actually highly recommend this film if it satirized all of this . 
after all , this film is filled with a bunch of pathetic stereotypes much of which i went to high school with . 
everyone's here : the jock , the homecoming queen , the nerd ( and his dominions of trekkies and x-philes ) , the alienated wannabe writer , the school spirit girl , the pothead ( s ) , the wigger , etc , etc , etc , and weirdly enough this film shows them as superficial , lame , and basically as a bunch of losers . 
except for denise , who rolls her eyes at everything , and easily becomes the most likable character even before she speaks ( her yearbook entry , something which is done for each main character , quotes oscar wilde - definite pointers there ) . 
unfortunately , the writers and directors take several major misteps on the way to making this into an admirable and even likable film . 
the film , as i said , portrays most of its characters as superficial and just totally ignorant to everything . 
however , instead of sticking with this , perhaps even going a bit further with it , they let this lie , and actually make these characters into our heroes . 
we follow several of them , all a bunch of moronic stereotypes with only a shread of humanity and realism , and tries to tell boring and overly melodramatic tales about them as if we actually cared and/or identified with them . 
and if we did , we certainly don't want to revisit that state of being . 
here's a quick low-down : it's graduation , and we follow a bunch of seniors on the last night , otherwise known as the " american grafitti " or , to a lesser extent , the " dazed and confused " cliche . 
the formal just followed them as they drove aimlessly ; the latter did a little bit of that and featured a big outdoor keg party . 
 " can't hardly wait " just opts for a big indoor keg party , and a little bit of aimless driving , albeit of the i'm-whining-because-i-can't-get-a-girl-i-want brand . 
we follow many people around , but mostly we trail preston ( ethan embry , of " that thing you do ! " ) , the alienated writer , who's been pining over the homcoming queen , amanda ( the totally overrated jennifer love hewitt ) , for the entirety of high school because he thinks they shared a moment their freshman year over a freaking pop tart . 
now that she's broken up with her football player boyfriend , mike ( peter facinelli ) , he decides to go to the party with a note he's written declaring his " love " for her in the hopes he'll build up the guts to give it to her . . . even 
though he's leaving for a multi-week intensive writing program hosted by none other than kurt vonnegut ( okay : the ingenius vonnegut or some icky noxema spokesperson ? ) . 
since that plot is incredibly lame and a track record of what goes on with it wouldn't be able to carry a commercial let alone a feature film , and because it's a party , there are some more main characters , such as : william ( charlie korsmo , finally surfacing after " dick tracy " ) , the nerd ( and his dominions ) who has come up with a ridiculous plan to publically sabotage mike , who's humiliated him for years , but gets too caught up in drinking to do it ; kenny ( seth green ) , the wigger , who has decided that this party will be where he will finally get laid ( uh huh ) ; and denise , the only exceptional character , who unfortunately gets stuck in a bathroom ( don't ask ) with kenny where the two characters let down their characters and are allowed to follow the laws of plot cliches from point a to point b with nary a bit of characterization involved after awhile . 
ugh . 
the main comparison this film is getting to another film is actually not " american grafitti " or " dazed and confused , " two films that embraced and ultimately made humans out of many of its high schoolers ( not to mention were extremely entertaining ) , but to john hughes films of the 80s , most notably " sixteen candles . " 
the big difference in the two is that that film managed to not only embrace but even satirize its main characters , and did so equally and in an entertaining fashion . 
this film forgets to satirize its characters , and ultimately tells a story about a bunch of uninteresting stereotypes . . . and 
then says that it's all okay . 
we can't take this film seriously , nor can we take this as fun , so really what good is it ? 
but i will tell you some things i did like : i liked the direction , except for a couple too-over-the-top features , like way-too-glossy jump cuts ( it's like an oxymoron ) and other obscurities . 
generally , though , elfont and kaplan do have graceful camera movement , and even manage to capture an altman-esque feel to their film from time to time ( a thing with a note , though , is too hokey to really be admirable ) . 
i actually did like seth green , for once in about a decade ( when he played a very young woody allen in " radio days " ) - his desintegration of his wigger character was almost believable . . . almost . 
and , of course , lauren ambrose is wonderful as denise , the one character we could have used some more of , even though it would have changed the entirety of the film . 
however , the character of denise really doesn't work with the film , when really thought about . 
she's far too witty and realized ( at least for the first half ) to belong in this film , and whenever she appears , she automatically gives everything a delightfully satirical tone . 
she's not just the cynic or the intellectual ; she's just a very interesting character who provides entertainment even if it further damages other already damaged characters . 
she may ruin the film more , but at least when she's on screen we can sit up and think to ourselves " well , at least we'll be entertained . " 
a couple other things that just don't work : mike's character , who suffers an epiphany throughout the film but in the end acts as though he has forgotten everything : too much the sacrificial lamb for the film in general ; the aimless , bitchy driving by preston to try and get over his inability to shack up with amanda - give me a break ; and perhaps the one thing that just doesn't work at all : jenna eflman's uncredited cameo as an angel - just didn't work , but nice try . 
basically the worst thing about this film , the real reason i'm giving this such a low rating , is because it refuses to give us any fully realized characters and then insists we follow around complete stereotypes from other movies doing things that are inane and unlike anything we'd do . 
we don't feel for these characters because for most of us , we aren't stereotypes going through the motions to worn subplots . 
the acid test for high school movies is : does it at all capture the feel of what it's portraying ? 
the answer for this film is no . 
nice try , though .
0	0	there are scenes in " the big hit " that are so awful , they simply defy description . 
the movie is infected with the same kind of blunderheaded idiocy and misplaced confidence that made " last action hero " ( 1993 ) such a chore to sit through . 
presumably , " the big hit " is an action-comedy , a difficult but not impossible genre to pull off . 
movies of this sort require a fine balance and careful tone , and the comedy is usually meant to work as catharsis for the violence . 
 " lethal weapon 2 " ( 1989 ) is a perfect example of an action thriller that was also very , very funny . 
unfortunately , in " the big hit , " it seems that comedy is the main motive , and the violence is only intended to punctuate the laughs . 
unfortunately , there are no laughs . 
the movie resembles some of the goofy , throwaway ridiculousness of early jackie chan films , but it doesn't benefit from chan's incredible stunts and goofy , charismatic presence . 
instead , we are left with a lot of digital effects and mark wahlberg , who must have considered himself invincible after his critically-acclaimed performance in last year's " boogie nights . " 
however , if he wants to maintain a decent career , he had better start selecting his projects more carefully - movies like this are a sure-fire recipe for a long career in the straight-to-video market . 
wahlberg plays melvin smiley , an amiable guy who also happens to be a professional hitman ( see " grosse pointe blank " for the same character , much better developed ) . 
the movie wants us to think , " gee how clever and ironic - a guy who can kill without any moral implications , and yet he can't stand for anyone not to like him . " 
the fact is , melvin is so desperate to keep people from not liking him , that he puts up with both an obnoxious fiancee ( christina applegate , with a horrendous new york accent ) and an abusive girlfriend ( lela rochon ) who is only using him for his money . 
his constant bending over backwards to please people makes him a complete patsy at best , and a thoroughly unbelievable character at worst . 
melvin is employed exclusively by a crime boss named paris ( avery brooks ) as part of a team of hitmen , which also includes cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) and crunch ( bokeem woodbine ) . 
one day , melvin agrees to do some moonlighting with cisco by kidnapping the teenage daughter of a rich japanese mogul named jiro nishi ( sab shimono ) for a million dollar ransom . 
however , not only has jiro nishi lost all his money producing a big hollywood movie ( inside joke , get it ? ) , but his kidnapped daughter , keiko ( china chow ) , also happens to be paris' goddaughter . 
so , when paris finds out she's been kidnapped , he takes it personally and becomes determined to find out who did it . 
not knowing the cisco is actually behind the whole scheme , paris puts him in charge of rooting out the kidnapper . 
of course cisco blames the whole thing on poor , innocent melvin . 
along the way , there are several obligatory gunfights , explosions , and car chases , plus a literal cliffhanger inspired by " jurassic park , " and a completely unconvincing romance between melvin and keiko ( who looks like she's barely pushing fifteen ) . 
what the movie passes off as humor resorts to thoroughly unfunny jokes about overweight jewish mothers , hara-kiri , drinking problems , leaking body bags , and a running gag about how crunch has recently discovered the pleasures of masturbation , and now spends all his time doing hand exercises . 
not to mention the pimply video store clerk who is always calling melvin and screeching about how he needs to return his copy of " king kong lives , " which is two weeks overdue . 
this mess of a movie was helmed by che-kirk wong , the latest hong kong director imported by john woo ( " face/off " ) , who also served as executive producer . 
woo needs to stop acting as a conduit for other directors , and start making more of his own films . 
wong , who directed such films as " rock'n'roll cop " back in hong kong , is completely tone deaf when it comes to comedy . 
maybe jokes about vexatious video clerks and vomiting on other people are funny across the ocean , but they're not here , at least in the manner wong handles them . 
many of the problems can be traced back to the script , which was penned by obvious freshman writer ben ramsey . 
in addition to his vague characterizations and uninspired action sequences , ramsey's script assaults the audience with his attempts to copy the vulgar , poetic rhythms of tarantino or mamet-style dialogue . 
what he comes out with is just a lot of annoying blather , most of which spews from the lips of lou diamond phillips ( whose favorite phrase is " it's all love " ) and robin dunne , who plays cisco's stuttering , black-wannabe assistant . 
the irritation factor of phillips and dunne combined is almost off the scale , which can pretty much describe the film as a whole .
0	0	starring shawnee smith ; donovan leitch ; ricky paull goldin ; kevin dillon & billy beck the blob is the remake of the 1960's classic ( a term that i use very loosely to define the original ) about a really mean glob of goop that takes out anything that gets in its way . 
now the original version has the virtue of cheesy special effects which give it a kind of nostalgic campy feel . 
the fact that steve mcqueen was the star of the film doesn't exactly hurt it either . 
fast forward to the late '80's . 
steve mcqueen isn't in the remake ( this might have something to do with the fact that he had been pushing up daisies for years ) . 
nor is there any hollywood heavy hitters in the lead role . 
that is unless you count matt dillon's brother kevin as a hollywood heavy hitter . 
the other thing that works against this new blob is that special effects technology has improved dramatically since the original . 
the only things you need now to have great special effects in a movie are deep pockets . 
it looks as if the produces of the new blob had a couple of holes in their pockets . 
the special effects in this movie are cheesy , like the original's . 
unlike the original , they don't look campy , they just look cheap . 
one bright spot in the movie from a purely sexist point of view is shawnee smith . 
she is very attractive and can actually act , which is more than i can say about some of her costars . 
in terms of plot , a little ball of pink goop falls from the sky . 
seems this goop was an experiment that was being housed up on a satellite . 
anyway , the pink stuff has a taste for humans . 
the more people it absorbs , the bigger it gets . 
and it isn't the friendliest goop on the block either . 
anyway , it attacks this little town and it's up to the attractive local teenage population to stop it . 
not really , but that is how it seems . 
this version attempts to recapture the camp of the original . 
as i've already said , this new version of the blob comes off more as cheap , badly acted , and badly written than campy . 
in the years since this film was made none of the cast have gone on to greatness . 
although , star shawnee smith had a very tiny role in armageddon . 
the reason that we have never heard of any of them again is quite simple -- they all stunk out loud . 
although some of the film's smaller roles are filled with some actors that , while not big stars , are doubtless people that you will recognize from their supporting roles in other movies and tv shows . 
it also appears that the producers of the blob tried to compensate for the lack of a special effects budget by making the scenes in which the blob makes meals of the townsfolk as gory as possible . 
sadly , it doesn't work very well . 
if you want to see a big ball of goop terrorize a town , then i would say that you should skip the remake and rent the original . 
 ( although that isn't so hot either . ) 
this newest version is seriously lacking in any redeeming qualities .
1	1	seen april 16 , 1999 at 10 p . m . at crossgates cinema 18 ( guilderland , n . y . ) , theater #15 , by myself for free using my hoyts' critic's pass . 
[theater rating : * * * 1/2 : very good seats , sound and picture] 
do you realize that every time you encounter a new person you've just become part of a story ? 
everyone has their own life story , both past and present , and every time two or more interact , they become part of each others' story ( not necessarily an important or even significant part , but a part nevertheless ) . 
that seems to be the basic theory behind `go , ' where several characters' chance encounters all effect each other in extreme ways . 
in order to test this theory screenwriter john august and director doug liman assemble a cast of characters that wouldn't usually be the types to have an entire film revolve around them , such as a teenage supermarket cashier , a bottom-of-the-drug-food-chain dealer and two struggling soap opera actors . 
these types of characters might not sound all that original , but consider that they will all be somehow effected by a strip club bouncer and his psychotic father , a mid-level drug dealer , a narc obsessed with multi-level-marketing , horny wedding guests , a zen lovemaker , two shrimp-scarfers and a cute normal teenage girl to round things out . 
how they will all come together is the process the film deals with . 
i'd imagine the concept to the film started out as the creators' testing themselves to see if they could actually pull it off and the outcome is a terrific achievement in filmmaking and the craft of fiction in general . 
the film starts out as anything else , with little indication of what's to come . 
we meet ronna ( polley ) , a depressed los angeles checkout girl who doesn't seem to have much desire to do anything except work just to pay her rent . 
she's not very charming , especially to her customers , but this is played mostly for laughs rather than characterization and it works . 
maybe this is because she's not a very afeminite character , but she's far from masculine - a creative character indeed . 
things start to progress when ronna reluctantly agrees to take the hours of the goofy , hyperactive , yet likable simon ( askew ) , an english teen into vices for the sake of the experiences . 
this agreement starts a three-pronged storyline as it allows simon to go to las vegas for the weekend with his friends and in turn drags ronna and her friends into buying and selling an experimental drug . 
the process of which will not only bring ronna close to being arrested but also to death . 
nearly the same can be said for two other characters , zack ( mohr ) and adam ( wolf ) , who we don't think much of when they first appear as supporting characters , but later will become major players to the film's makeup - another process used by the filmmakers to elaborate on the theory of how significant insignificant interaction might be . 
once the pace is picked up the film really begins to show its mettle . 
when the title screen `ronna' is flashed shortly after the aforementioned turning point scene , it's clear this film isn't going to employ the standard linear method of storytelling . 
considering how good it is up until that point , it's a long overdue change of pace needed in movies today . 
and so the film begins to take shape , first by following ronna and her friends on a one-night adventure that begins with a drug deal instigated by zack and adam ( who were actually looking for simon ) , which doesn't exactly go as planned , but that's what keeps it all so interesting . 
the second storyline starts at the same moment as ronna's story , but this time the camera chooses to follow simon instead . 
simon and his three friends head to ? vegas for a night on the town and in the process experience things they never would have imagined . 
the third arc , about zack and adam , again overlaps with ronna's story telling much of the same story but from a completely different angle . 
we're shown things we never would have expected were going on while following ronna . 
and many of the events that do happen to ronna because of zack and adam aren't even their fault - they just happened to be where they were when they were . 
i'd really like to dissect each of the three storylines and especially how the film wraps up in the end , but that would take up too much time and space and spoil everything for those who haven't seen the film . 
perhaps the greatest element to the film is its constant surprises and unpredictability , and not due to plot twists or a confusing screenplay , just through great filmmaking . 
still , i can list and analyze nearly everything the film does so well : 
 ? direction : trying to piece together such a complex story is no easy task and for a rookie filmmaker such as liman , it's a great accomplishment . 
he doesn't just depict a story , he wraps us up in it all , pulling us into the fray so that we experience every high and low . 
 ? screenplay : besides being chiseled with detail and creative in general , it's clear the script has been inspired by many sources , with both obvious and subtle references , yet it never screams `rip-off . ' 
 ? tone/mood : where other hollywood films have failed to bring the charm of the independents to the mainstream , this one is able to create its own sense of the macabre . 
it's not overly-dark or twisted and the comedy isn't so satirical for it to be considered a black comedy , more like `macabre light . ' 
 ? cinematography/art direction : able to photograph both the intense and the lighthearted in the same manner . 
 ? characterization : for nearly every character introduced , no matter what role they play in the big picture , we're able to get a sense of who they are , what they're thinking and how they came to be in their situations . 
even when their actions are surprising , it never seems very out of synch . 
 ? performances : every actor nails their role ( see above ) . 
 ? theme/theory : the film doesn't seem to be concerned with conveying any kind of political or social messages , instead , it's more of a philosophical experiment . 
in fact , it might not have meant to do that intentionally , but there definitely is something existential to it all . 
 . . . and to think that `go' is just a big comedy and adventure ! 
 ( 4/23/99 ) [see also : `the big lebowski , ' `clerks , ' `jackie brown , ' `pulp fiction , ' `true romance ; ' also by liman : `swingers']
0	1	long ago , films were constructed of strong dialogue , original characters , memorable plot points , and solid acting . 
one of the best examples that hollywood now completely ignore these qualities is found in the new film where the heart is . 
this opus about the power of love and the redemption of family follows the tragic , and i mean tragic , life of novalee nation ( natalie portman ) . 
hitting the road with her hick , guitar-playing boyfriend in a rusted-out gm , novalee dreams of the blue skies of bakersfield and sipping chocolate milk beneath a plastic umbrella with her unborn baby , due in a month . 
stopping off at a nearby wal-mart for a quick rest , novalee's boyfriend decides to take off and leaves her there . 
novalee then decides to secretly hole up in the wal-mart ( because she's not the brightest bulb in the stagelights ) . 
a wacky librarian ( keith david ) comes to her rescue when she goes into labor one night while she is camped in the outdoors section of the store . 
then the she moves in with a family , befriends everyone in town -- including ashley judd's character ( who has five kids and still can work part-time as a nurse ) -- fights off religious freaks , survives a tornado , breaks the heart of the wacky librarian that saved her , receives an inheritance , builds a martha stewart-esque house , becomes an award-winning photographer , and manages to always look like she stepped out of a cosmo shoot , all while not once doing anything with her kid . 
this film is terrible . 
the directing is awful : it seems director matt williams had an index card with six angles written on it and used every one of them , over and over and over again . 
we get pathetic and ugly acting by natalie portman , who can do good work . 
a disjointed pacing of key scenes and a time structure so confusing that it would throw steve prefontaine off . 
a subplot that actually validates the actions of the boyfriend who abandoned novalee in the wal-mart parking lot . 
an embarrassing display of emotions by the characters , making the audience ill . 
taking two great comedic screenwriters , babaloo mandel and lowell ganz , and forcing them to write drama on par with oprah's book club . 
altogether , it has the feeling of being trapped at home , watching a very bad television mini-series and wishing it to end , only the remote is broken . 
however , the main problem with the film is that it never answers the most poignant question brought up : where is the heart ? 
no one ever seems to find it in this piece of junk .
1	1	modern audiences are more likely to be familiar with les misirables from the pop-broadway musical rather than victor hugo's original tome . 
adapted several times for the cinema , this latest effort does a superb job of translating the characters , story , and heart of the novel to the screen . 
liam neeson stars as jean valjean . 
as a young man , valjean stole some bread to satisfy his hunger . . . and he was sentenced to 19 years of hard labor for his crimes . 
prison hardened him , and on his release he seems doomed to a life of crime and squalor . 
however , an unexpected act of compassion changes his outlook on life , and he vows to become a better man . 
however , he runs up against one man who doesn't believe in reform . 
inspector javert ( geoffrey rush ) is an obsessive law abider . 
he has no tolerance for anyone who breaks the rules , even with benign intentions . 
he once served as a guard at the labor camp where valjean served , and after valjean breaks his parole , javert devotes himself to bringing him to justice . 
two women also get caught up in the struggle . 
fantine ( uma thurman ) is an unwed mother suffocating in an unforgiving society . 
her daughter , cosette ( mimi newman , and later , claire danes ) , is her life , yet she cannot afford to raise her . 
instead , cosette is sent to live with a cruel foster family which extorts money from fantine , and forces cosette into a life little better than a slave . 
director bille august manages to create a faithful adaptation of victor hugo's novel , which , though omitting some of the political undertones , remains true to the overall story and tone of the book . 
hopefully you won't , as some clueless members of the audience did , wonder where all the songs went . 
the movie manages to be completely engrossing without the andrew lloyd webber flourishes . 
the experience is bolstered by strong performances throughout , though neeson and rush deservedly take center stage with their core roles . 
neeson in particular deserves kudos for his portrayal of a man trying to do good , but continually haunted by his past . 
the supporting cast is also extraordinary . 
the only actor who dims in comparison is hans matheson , playing the revolutionary , marius . 
the film slightly loses its luster during his brief love affair , but it is transitory , and truly only distracting when contrasted with the rest of the film . 
the novel les misirables is , by any account , an epic , both in its scope and in its length . 
while it would be nearly impossible to cram everything from its pages into a two hour movie , this latest attempt does an admirable job at the translation . 
it , too , is an epic . . . and one worth seeing .
0	0	isn't it the ultimate sign of a movie's cinematic ineptitude when you can't think of much to say about it other than " it sucks " ? 
one of the first official year 2000 releases , supernova is such a movie . 
i can't seem to get past one-word adjectives with this one , although " boring , " " stupid " and " absurd " doesn't amount to much of a review . 
a shame . 
i would have been able to save myself the chore of desperately trying to elaborate . 
but c'est la vie . 
here goes nothing . 
i'll keep it short . 
i suppose the first bad omen for supernova came when director walter hill ( 48 hours ) removed his name from the movie , requesting that it be replaced with the pseudonym thomas lee . 
the film's fate was sealed in many minds when struggling studio mgm declined to screen it for the press , an event usually signifying a studio's lack of confidence in a particular movie . 
hill's and mgm's actions were prudent . 
when the captain of medical space vessel nightingale dies in a tragic hyperjump accident , a reformed drug addict who is also the first officer , for some reason ( james spader ) is forced to take command . 
the ship picks up a distress call from a nearby planet and , on arrival , picks up one survivor from an apparent accident in an abandoned mining colony . 
one of the crew members ( angela bassett ) knows this passenger , who is played by peter facinelli , and has some bad feelings about it -- and we all know what that means . 
this intergalactic hitchhiker is carrying some mysterious cargo -- a jellylike substance the purpose of which is unknown , though it seems to bring some form of pleasure to whoever touches it . 
another one of the crew members experiences this first hand ; after spending a few minutes partially inside this glob of goo , he does some impressive handstand pushups . 
evidently , touching this enigmatic egg-shaped thingie makes you younger and stronger . 
how ? 
why ? 
the movie never bothers to explain . 
soon enough though , spader and bassett are running around the ship like mad , being chased by the all-of-a-sudden-superhuman facinelli . 
to be honest , i don't even remember exactly why . 
i just remember that i didn't care . 
supernova's plot suggested some more or less interesting ideas , such as the ball of goo being an intergalactic time bomb , but they are all dropped before they have a chance to develop into anything truly intriguing . 
in fact , everything is dropped just so the actors can have some fun running around what looks like an elaborate set . 
well , the effects are good , though there's hardly a studio movie with bad special effects these days so i'm not sure whether that's so remarkable an accomplishment . 
the performances are hardly worth talking about . 
i'm not even sure i can call what's here " performances , " though angela bassett sure is good at giving people the finger . 
james spader is not a bad actor , but he proves to be one of the blandest action stars i've seen in a while , mostly because he isn't given a character with a personality . 
the action scenes are just as bland , since they're pretty much just rehashes of action elements that weren't particularly entertaining the first time around . 
and since the action scenes are everything to this movie , it's pretty much dead in the water . 
and for the life of me , i can't figure out why it's called supernova .
0	0	and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time . 
yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it . 
oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . . 
plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or 
something along those lines . 
critique : a complete and utter mess . 
disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and 
that's just the first thirty minutes ! 
this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself . 
it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) . 
the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it 
just goes from one inexplicable situation to another . 
one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s . 
why ? 
who knows . 
what are they talking about ? 
no idea . 
flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! ! 
hullo . . . ? ! ? 
confused yet ? 
i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story . 
random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ? 
or were they in the present at that time ? 
who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who 
seriously cares ! 
this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it . 
please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it ! 
even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one . 
the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere . 
and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ? 
nope . 
and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes , 
the man is not aging gracefully , is he ? 
oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years . 
the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near . 
overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's 
a living ! 
he's also very funny , not purposely though . 
all in all , the movie stinks . 
nuff said .
1	0	gere , willis , poitier chase each other around the world 
the jackal a film review by michael redman copyright 1997 by michael redman 
when the soviet union imploded , the western countries lost their shadow . 
with the united states friendly with the russians , we no longer had an entity to blame for the world's problems . 
this showed up in hollywood films as the communist government was no longer the easy bad guy . 
it's time to rejoice because we've found our new villain . 
now it's no longer the russian government who sends killers out into foreign lands , it's the russian _mafia_ . 
a perfect solution , it combines the dread of organized crime and the still-present uneasiness with the former eastern block countries . 
best of all , the villains are still foreigners : fear of the other always plays best . 
so it is a crime lord in moscow that sends legendary hitman the jackal ( bruce willis ) to assassinate a highly placed us government figure in retaliation for the death of his brother during a nightclub raid . 
the fbi is at a loss as to how to protect the target from someone they're not sure even exists . 
coming to their rescue is former ira operative declan mulqueen ( richard gere ) who is temporarily released from prison to assist fbi agent carter preston ( sidney poitier ) and russian major valentina koslova ( diane venora ) . 
mulqueen's ex-girlfriend basque terrorist isabella ( mathilda may ) is the only person who has seen the elusive jackal . 
 ( presumably there is an exclusive international terrorist club somewhere where the three met . ) 
the film follows two parallel tracks as the jackal prepares for his $70 million hit and mulqueen attempts to locate him while preston makes sure that the irishman doesn't slip away . 
crossing numerous borders and donning various disguises for both himself and his mini-van , the killer is always one step ahead of his pursuers . 
being very loosely based on the same book the 1973 thriller " the day of the jackal " , comparison between the two films is inevitable . 
there is no doubt that the original is the better movie , playing the story for suspense rather than the current action/adventure . 
as a mystery , " the jackal " has enough holes in it to ruin the tale , but if you can accept it for what it is , there's entertainment to be had . 
holes ? let's see ? a pivotal clue for mulqueen is so obscure that he must possess psychic powers to pick it up . 
for a 20-year veteran that can command the big bucks , the jackal is an incredibly poor shot . 
the final scene between gere and willis occurs in a location that should be mobbed with police , but it's just the two of them . 
willis' disguises usually look like bruce willis and are just as interesting as val kilmer's in " the saint " . 
 ( and lest you misunderstand , that's not a compliment . ) 
but the three stars are fun to watch . 
it's good to see gere in something other than a business suit . 
willis has a mixed history in picking projects , but his characters are always watchable . 
poitier is by far the superior actor , but has limited screen time . 
the problems in logic are flaws , but don't ruin the experience . 
occasionally there are movies that transcend their blemishes . 
this is one of them . 
[the appeared in the 11/20/97 " bloomington voice " , bloomington , indiana]
0	0	" varsity blues " is the best film of 1999 thus far . 
unfortunately , it is also the first film i have seen from 1999 . 
it is another one of those small-town sports movies that involves a flawed , but good-heartedfrom 1999 . 
it is another one of those small-town sports movies that involves a flawed , but good-hearted protagonist ; a rough and meanspirited coach ; and the " big game . " 
by the end , will the underdog overcome great odds and triumph ? 
will everyone in the town turn against the coach ? 
will the team win the climactic game ? 
do cats bathe themselves regularly ? 
the so-called " hero " in question is john moxin ( james van der beek ) , a senior at west canaan high school who plays for the varsity football team , but is really just hoping to get a scholarship at brown university so that he can get out of the dead-end town . 
at least he's got the right idea , since west canaan , texas is portrayed in the film as , frankly , pathetic , with the whole town treating the weekly football games as the second coming . 
heck , in one scene , the front page of the town's newspaper is proclaiming about the west canaan badgers' big win the night before . 
when the team's star quarterback is severely injured , tearing the ligaments in his leg , john finds himself taking over as the team's leader , but his few minutes of glory do not last long , as he begins to have problems with his girlfriend ( amy smart ) when she discovers he spent an evening with another girl ( ali larter ) . 
and after staying out all night with his drinking buddies at a strip joint ( all of the teenagers in the film are portrayed as raging alcoholics ) , the team loses their second-to-last game , putting john at feuds with the coach ( jon voight who , like gary oldman , is overstaying his welcome in the typecasted role as the " bad guy " ) . 
worse yet , the coach is threatening to ruin john's scholarship chances if the badgers don't win their final game . 
the plotting of " varsity blues " is as old as the hills , and contains every cliche in the book . 
admittedly , i was never exactly bored while i was watching it , but i hasten to add that i was rarely ever entertained . 
throughout , all i could really think of is how virtually the same exact story had been filmed with a great deal more thoughtfulness and maturity in 1983's " all the right moves . " 
one of the biggest problems i had with the film is how little of interest any of the characters actually were , least of all certainly not john , who , played by van der beek ( of tv's " dawson's creek " ) , is pretty much a bore without any engaging qualities . 
while i probably shouldn't blame this on van der beek , since the inauspicious and " by-the-numbers " screenplay by w . peter iliff isn't of any help , he is still certainly not in the league of tom cruise in " all the right moves . " 
the story revolving around john , meanwhile , is extemely thin throughout , particularly for its 104-minute running time , and it alternates between uninspired comic relief ( as in when the students see their sex education teacher working as a stripper at the club ) and heavy-handed melodrama . 
the romance between john and his girlfriend had the potential to be an adequate subplot , but we also learned very little about her , which is unfortunate since amy smart , whom i don't think i've seen before in past films , is probably the only character written with any sort of intelligence . 
smart does not allow her character to become the " passive girlfriend , " instead coming off as a young woman with her own ideas and opinions . 
it's too bad the camera didn't linger on her long enough so we could hear some of those thoughts . 
the adult characters probably fare the worse of any , since they all must play residents of a dim-witted town that cares about nothing but football . 
john's relationship with his parents can also be telegraphed far in advance . 
his father is set on him becoming a football player at a university , but john doesn't want any part of that . 
his mother stands beside her " big , strong husband " and is a passive female . 
finally , jon voight plays the stock bully coach character and he does nothing to make the thankless role any more than one-dimensional . 
saving " varsity blues " from being a total washout are a few amusing sequences , including one set in the sex education class , which did get a laugh out of me . 
the scenes of playing football were well-shot and thankfully didn't overstay their welcome , as many sports films fall victim to . 
but leaving the theater , the question i had in my mind was why did this film need to be made ? 
i seem to be asking this question quite a lot lately , since the same old stories seem to be cranking out of hollywood . 
do we really need another high-school sports film ? 
no , we don't , and certainly not one of this low-caliber , which felt like a cut-and-paste job of spare parts from much better , but similar , films . 
 " varsity blues , " no doubt is the first one , however , to include an earnest scene in which one of the characters is only wearing whipped cream on their private parts .
0	0	" return to horror high , " wants to be a couple different types of movies at once . 
the film tells the story of a low-budget horror movie being filmed at the closed-down crippen high , a school where a group of serial murders took place five years before . 
but what the cast and crew don't know is that a real killer , maybe the same one that was never apprehended , is going into action again . 
on one level , " return to horror high " is a slasher movie , and it is at this level that it works the best on . 
watching the film , which was made in 1987 , i couldn't help but take notice that the killer's costume was almost identital to that of the ghostface in , " scream , " and " scream 2 . " 
on another level , the film wants to be a slapstick comedy , and there are many hints of this throughout . 
unfortunately , most of these jokes fall flat . 
and the last thing the film wants to be is a " behind-the-scenes " look at an exploitation film being made . 
the only problem is that , while much of it is supposed to be from the movie itself being made , no cameras are shown filming it , thus making it far more confusing than it had to be . 
and to top it all off , the " twist " ending makes very little to no sense whatsoever , and so we are basically left with feeling as if we wasted our time . 
there are story developments that are beyond ludicrous , and plot holes you could drive a winnebago through . 
if you see the film , or have seen it , you'll know what i mean . 
the premise of " return to horror high , " is admittedly pretty crafty , and i liked the atmosphere of the school , which is where the whole thing takes place . 
but director froehlich , judging from this movie , is an incompetent director , except for being able to film the seldom suspeneful scene . 
well , come to think of it , there is only one scene that is actually scary , and it has to do with two actors being locked in a room as the killer tries to break in . 
but other than that two-minute distraction , " return to horror high , " is certainly no great shake . 
note : look for george clooney in a supporting role as one of the actors on the film . 
and strangely enough , he is the first character to get the ax . . . literally .
0	0	there are those of us who think of leslie nielsen as the bumbling , hapless straight man from the hysterical " naked gun " films , crack an immediate smile and forgive him of whatever wavering movie spoof he's committed himself to starring in since . 
the wavering movie spoofs , however , are less forgivable . 
to be fair , " wrongfully accused , " the send-up in question and nielsen's third parody since the last " gun , " isn't quite as excruciatingly humorless as his " dracula : dead and loving it " or " spy hard , " which is a mighty good thing . 
nielsen is still in tip-top comedic form , able as ever to deadpan his way through even the most horrible puns , but he really needs a screenplay that plays off his talents instead of relying on them , and he needs one very soon . 
 " wrongfully accused " meshes together the premises of " the fugitive " and " patriot games , " casting its always game star as ryan harrison ( get it ? ) , a master violinist who is drawn into an affair with a married temptress ( kelly le brock ) . 
she , however , sets harrison up to take the rap for the murder of her husband ( michael york ) - a crime actually committed by a one-armed , one-legged , one-eyed man ( aaron pearl ) . 
harrison is arrested , found guilty and sentenced to death , but escapes from a prison bus , of course , and then is pursued by a determined u . s . marshal named fergus falls ( richard crenna , unnecessarily riffing off of tommy lee jones' already smirky oscar-winning role ) . 
there's also a mystery brunette ( melinda mcgraw ) and an assassination subplot involving the u . n . secretary general , but like any of it matters . 
 " wrongfully accused " gets off to an assured start , with an in-concert nielsen , touted " lord of the violin " by bare-chested posters , pulling a jimi hendrix on his musical instrument as hundreds of tuxedo-clad mosh in front of the stage . 
nice touch . 
most of the scenes that follow , however , never top the opener . 
 ( hysterical exceptions : the mentos and " baywatch " goofs . ) 
movie parodies are crammed in at an almost-subliminal rate , but most are empty . 
when a giant snake lunges onto the screen and snatches a cast member a la " anaconda " or baseball players disappear into a " field of dreams " -esque cornfield , there's really nothing to laugh at . 
other moments , like an interlude in a fishing shop , are so unfocused that you're not sure what you're supposed to be laughing at . 
there seem to be more cheap references than frenzied send-ups here , so it's possible that director/writer pat proft , by bombarding the viewer with a careless mixture of the two , guarantees something is sure to stick . 
and what does stick sticks well , particularly the jabs at genre conventions like stylized flashbacks and hard-boiled dialogue , what those " naked gun " s ( which proft collaborated on ) did great ; these bits are so on-target that they allow you to remember " wrongfully accused " as an almost-halfway-there spoof instead of a lame-brained failure . 
the movie might have been cursed to begin with , opening fast on the heels of " mafia ! " , from proft colleague jim abrahams , and " baseketball , " from proft colleague david zucker , but it's a strong possibility that nobody is going to be accusing " wrongfully accused " of being nielsen's funniest .
1	0	a couple of months ago , when i first downloaded the face/off trailer from the net , my initial reaction was a fourteen carrot gold 'yawn' . 
followed swiftly by a press of my computers delete key , not wanting to waste six or seven megabytes of precious space on this piss-poor trailer . 
then i started reading the first wave of reviews from the u . s . . . . . unique . . . excellent . . . . must-see . 
well , i thought still skeptical , i suppose i might as well go see it when it gets here . 
'here' , of course , was still three months away . 
i'll admit , when i trotted off to see this film , the only john woo movie i had seen before was the fairly enjoyable but highly forgetable broken arrow . 
i'd heard good things about his previous work with movies like hard boiled , but his films were definitely not on my must-see list . 
that , let me tell you , has changed completely . 
i knew this fact only five minutes into the film , after the brilliantly shot and acted opening sequence where sean archer loses his son blew me off my feet . 
the acting throughout the film is staggeringly good for an action flick . 
seriously . 
i've never been a big john travolta fan , but he , like cage , perfectly suited his role in the movie . . . . . sorry , 
make that 'roles' in the movie . 
even travolta's great performance , however , paled in comparison to cage's character portrayals . 
my favourite cage scene was definitely when he was crashed out in compardre dietrich hassler's hideout . 
half drugged out of his mind , he sits there reclining back in a chair talking about his son's death from castor's perspective - " doesn't it just break your heart . " he mutters coldly . 
now don't go thinking from the previous comments about brilliant acting that this is a drama focused movie - it's not . 
that's what really makes this movie unique . 
it's an action movie with brilliantly portrayed characters . . . . . not a common mix at all . 
suspension of disbelief is paramount in this movie though . . . . . that's 
the only way to overlook the fact that travolta and cage fire around 5671 rounds at each other . . . . and 
never hit . 
several action scenes are just so well choreographed that they just make wish that you could press 'rewind' and watch it over again . 
the part where archer and troy have a stand off on either side of a double-sided mirror is just plain brilliant . 
whilst cage's and travolta's performances would be enough alone to sustain most movies , the lesser characters are just as intriguing . 
joan allen , who usually sticks to the straight drama movies , plays her part perfectly as archer's long suffering wife . 
i like the fact that her character didn't end up toting a gun at the end of the movie . . . it 
would have wrecked her potrayal . 
gina gershon was surprising to say the least as castor troy's mistreated girlfriend . . . . . make that * one of * castor troy's mistreated girlfriends . 
other movies would have used her character as just window dressing . . . a 
sex object , but instead her character is very strong and independent . 
dominique swain , who plays archer's daughter , also does a nice job , though her character is not as explored as much as allen's or gershon's . 
faults ? well . . . there were some i have to say . 
first , the movie's ending , whilst being very good overall , was a bit too drawn out for it's own good . 
after the two combatants begin duelling again after the final boat crash you can't help but think - " geez , are you guys nuclear powered or what ? " . 
there were certain bits that weren't handled properly , like where archer appears safe and sound on solid ground after jumping off the converted oil platform/prison - more explanation here would have been nice . 
overall , this movie was not perfect . 
but i thought it was about as close as an action movie has ever came to perfect . 
many critics have claimed that this movie will change the way action movies are made . . . . . i 
certainly hope so .
1	0	if beavis and butthead had a favorite movie , from dusk till dawn would probably be it . 
scripted by quentin tarantino and directed by robert rodriguez ( desperado ) , the movie panders to the very worst in sex and violence -- and is incredibly fun to watch . 
it starts off as a pulp fiction-type crime story , with criminal brothers george clooney and tarantino robbing a convenience store . 
because this is a tarantino movie , however , it's not just a case of pull the gun and take the loot , it's a case of a hole being shot through someone's hand , a man on fire jumping out behind the counter and the entire store blowing up as they drive away . 
the opening scene sets the tone for the rest of the movie -- everything overdone and nothing as it seems . 
clooney and tarantino bring a hostage to the motel and then hijack an rv with a family in it . 
harvey keitel plays the backslidden ex-preacher and juliette lewis his daughter , whom registered sex-pervert tarantino eyes endlessly . 
you know you're mentally unbalanced when you find lewis the least bit attractive , although she's not nearly as obnoxious as usual in from dusk till dawn . 
the first half of the movie has the criminals and hostages trying to get to and through the mexico border , clooney's strategy involving hiding in the rv shower while lewis is on the toilet . 
it does its trick ; the border guard takes one look at lewis relieving herself and immediately goes blind , never noticing clooney or tarantino . 
once they get to mexico , it's time to wait at the rendezvous point , a topless bar called titty twister where we're once again reminded tarantino wrote the movie as he drinks champagne off the foot of a stripper . 
finally , after about ten minutes of intercut boob shots and clooney forcing keitel and lewis to drink with him , the stripper turns into a vampire . 
soon half the people in the bar are vampires and the other half fall or fight back . 
that's right , we've come all this way to see a vampire movie . 
but like everything else , tarantino takes this age-old genre and twists it to his own ends to produce over-the-top entertainment . 
so we get holy water condom balloons , heads rolling , quadruple impalement on an overturned table and keitel getting bitten by a vampire and announcing he only has a few minutes left before he becomes " a lap dog of satan . " 
the from dusk till dawn dialogue is 100% tarantino , hovering between absurd and disgusting ( as when they're entering the nightclub and cheech marin announces the main attractions of the titty twister ) , but always entertaining , and is a huge reason the movie is so much fun to watch instead of being one more second-rate gorefest . 
clooney , keitel and especially tarantino are so over-the-top with their delivery that the dialogue is that much more hilarious , ensuring not one second of from dusk till dawn is taken the least bit seriously . 
stuff like this would be terrible in any other movie , but tarantino and rodriguez know exactly what to do to entertain people , even if there's absolutely no message or meaning to from dusk till dawn . 
pulp fiction had the vulgarity and violence for a reason , but this movie just throws it out for cheap entertainment . 
from dusk till dawn isn't the classic of modern cinema that pf is , but is does prove you can do a good job making a really bad movie .
0	1	note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
it's rather easy to start tuning out after about twenty minutes of finn taylor's first feature film , dream with the fishes , when the plodding , tedious opening sequence finally pays off with a potentially provocative setup . 
any hopeful expectations , however , are soon vanquished as the film settles upon being an uninvolving mismatched-buddy movie which is rarely as funny as it aspires to be nor nearly as affecting as it eventually strives to be in the film's latter half . 
the film's central characters are terry ( david arquette ) , a depressed , lonely voyeur who claims to be despondent since the death of his wife in an automobile accident , and nick ( brad hunt ) , a carefree young street tough later revealed to be terminally ill . 
nick lives in the apartment building across from terry , who spies on the trysts between nick and girlfriend liz ( kathryn erbe ) with his trusty set of binoculars , but the two young men first formally meet at the bay bridge where a half-drunk terry precariously teeters upon the edge , unconvincingly vowing suicide . 
nick casually asks for terry's wristwatch , and eventually cons terry into a trade - the watch for a bottle of pills . 
of course , terry finds that the pills do not end up having the presumed lethal effects , and he angrily sets out to find nick in order to retrieve his watch . 
learning of nick's condition ( he only has a handful of weeks left ) , terry's compassion kicks in , and the two eventually come to a distinctly peculiar arrangement - terry will agree to bankroll the dying nick's lifelong fantasies , and nick will fulfill terry's death wish by killing him . 
this is a promising premise , and mr . taylor's film could have gone any number of ambitious ways from this point , but he instead chooses to capitalise upon the obvious inversion of the characters ( terry is a repessed , mournful character who wants to die , while nick is a free spirit with a joie de vivre who is dying but wants to live ) and takes the easy route out by turning dream with the fishes into a typical lark where the two characters engage in a series of generally dull exploits , and where the straight-laced character learns to enjoy and ppreciate life when hooked up with a quirky character . 
this is by-the-numbers plotting , buddy movie/road movie redux . 
however , dream with the fishes is most hampered not by its uninspired storyline , but by the characters which carry the story - it helps in such a film to have at least one of the protagonists be at least somewhat empathetic , if not likeable . 
unfortunately , that is not the case here , where both of the film's leading characters are thorougly uninteresting and annoying , giving the audience very little to sympathise with their respective plights , and even less reason to want to follow their onscreen exploits . 
far from a romp , this fatal flaw makes dream with fishes more like a chore to endure than a playful jaunt , and undermines the attempts at emotional resonance in the latter stages of the film as the two men begin to bond . 
mr . taylor's dialogue sporadically falls flat in dream with the fishes - while attempting to capture a quirky and clever tone , it too often comes across instead as hopelessly contrived ( witness such lines as " you should have asked something more interesting , like 'do you enjoy the pain ? ' 
- see , that's provocative , leaves room for further questions . " ) 
the film enjoys a few inspired moments - the urn scene , a session of nude bowling , the policeman joining in on terry and nick's acid trip - but unfortunatetely these instances are few and far between , and for the most part the humour in dream with the fishes registers more as attempts rather than actual successes . 
this occurs particularly often during the film's opening sequence - as terry is wrestling the bedridden nick for his watch in the hospital , i'm realising that this is * intended * to be funny , although nary a smile crept upon my lips - which is probably due to the obvious fact that it's painfully clear to the audience from the outset that terry is going to be thwarted in his initial suicide attempts , sapping any element of surprise or amusement from nick's scheme of tricking him ; this is not a film which has the wherewithal to kill off its leading star in the opening ten minutes . 
the entire sequence is , then , clearly an exercise for character exposition , with attempts at humour terribly diminished by utter predictability . 
among the cast , coming off best is david arquette , the current master in the portrayal of meek , squirming , stammering fresh-faced characters - he would have been terrific as the lead for george huang's swimming with sharks - who gets to apply his adeptness for timidity as terry . 
mr . taylor ambitiously employs an interesting visual technique , where the portions of the film set in an urban environment have been processed to appear extremely grainy and heavily saturated , as opposed to a bright , crisp look for the smalltown scenes . 
the charge of dream with the fishes's protagonists being wholly unempathetic is a bit of an odd one coming from me ; i seem to have a predilection for films with unlikeable characters , and indeed , in many cases have i been in the minority , supporting films which have been condemned as interminable due to the difficult , audience-unfriendly nature of their characters . 
for dream with the fishes , though , i did find myself on the flip side of coin , often hoping that the film would quickly conclude , and that the nick character would just hurry up and die .
0	0	recently one night a young director named baz luhrmann couldn't sleep . 
he tumbled out of bed and moved over to the television where he watched mtv for an hour . 
then he moved to his kitchen where he spent the same amount of time eating spoiled food . 
then he took down a volume of shakespeare's work and read it cover to cover - never really paying attention to the words or plot . 
and then , as a climax , he took out his video camera and pressed the " on " button . 
the result ? 
william shakespeare's romeo + juliet - the worst film ever made and a complete failure . 
though , to be fair , an interesting complete failure . 
the idea at the film's core is to make shakespeare appealing to the crowds . 
this is done by moving the camera around at a rapid rate so that we can't see what is going on . 
and filming the dialogue in voice over . 
and shooting leonardo dicaprio like a calvin klein model . 
and making the frame go still while flashing the character's name at the bottom . 
and filming long tedious action sequences in slow motion . 
i mean , man , this is the 90s , dude . 
however i've seen terrible films that are fun to watch . 
 ( examples are batman and robin and the island of doctor moreau . 
 ) that rule doesn't apply here . 
this is a film that takes itself seriously . 
that is it's major fault . 
another problem was pointed out by my friend , alex ( who was singing songs by leonard bernstein throughout . 
 ) ; the original play is a powerful piece of work because the author remained neutral and didn't take sides . 
here it's clear that we are supposed to side with romeo . 
 ( just look at the way they film him . 
 ) from the begining he's our hero and this doesn't work . 
and dicaprio's awful performance doesn't help . 
luhrmann never decides if he wants to entertain us or enlighten us . 
the result is a mess . 
you can feel him striving to be something he isn't . 
he tries to pull of a mix in which drag queens are filmed from purposefully arty angles . 
he tries very hard . 
key word : tries . 
 " oh look , he's filming above water action from below . 
pretty . 
what does it represent ? " 
why do people do ugly things ? 
i scrambled away from my tv set feeling guilty as if i could never read the play again and keep a straight face .
0	1	capsule : a science fiction allegory . 
at the millennium a lethal contagious virus has hit taiwan . 
officials have cut off water and other services to the center of contagion . 
life there devolves and degenerates . 
a man in an apartment has a hole in his floor and with it harasses his downstairs neighbor . 
a slow but harrowing film to be missed if possible . 
 , low -1 ( -4 to +4 ) 
- the taiwan virus is ravaging taiwan and the part of the city that is the center of the contagion has been evacuated of anyone who will go . 
one apartment building still houses people . 
a woman , formerly an office worker , ( yang kuei-mei ) is tormented by her upstairs neighbor ( lee kang-sheng ) who has a hole cut by a plumber in the floor and is using it as a drain . 
neighbor runs a small failing grocery store . 
- to make things more depressing , it is constantly raining hard . 
- upstairs neighbor vomits through , pours water , etc . a small and almost entirely one-sided war starts . 
allegory about callousness and selfishness . 
- woman is living on a pile of rolls of toilet tissue . 
- incongruous songs added to show downstairs neighbors dreams . 
these are the songs of popular taiwanese singer grace chang . 
- apartment is falling apart . 
wallpaper is separating from walls . 
plumbing is failing . 
- boredom shown by long cuts in which nothing happens . 
a lot of film seems to be used up . 
- this story might have been done much better as a ten-minute animated film . 
- stars are considered to be great dramatic actors by one reviewer . 
- this film seems longer at 95 minutes most two-hour films .
1	1	cinematically speaking , gordon parks' original 1971 _shaft_ is not a great film . 
a bit slow at times and more than a little rough around the edges as it builds to its climactic explosion of violent action , this spirited but formulaic yarn that initially brought ernest tidyman's " black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks " to the big screen hardly qualifies as groundbreaking filmmaking . 
yet nearly 30 years after its original release--and long after the genre it spawned , " blaxploitation , " died with that decade--the 1971 _shaft_ remains an extremely entertaining watch , never having completely escaped pop culture consciousness . 
the reason for this is the same one that explains the film's connection with moviegoers far beyond the target african-american audience : the title character of john shaft . 
while the fact that the strong , smart , virile , and superbly suave shaft is black is the primary factor for his historical and cultural significance , his broad-based appeal stems from an idea that transcends race : he is comfortable , confident , and proud about who he is , and anyone who had a problem with that could simply kiss his ass . 
this fact also explains why john singleton's y2g revival of john shaft is as enjoyable as it is . 
much like the film that started the franchise , this _shaft_'s plot doesn't score points in the originality department , but the energy level and smooth attitude distinguishes it from standard crime thrillers . 
contrary to what has been reported over the past few months , this _shaft_ is not a remake of the original film , but more of a sequel/spinoff . 
the star audiences know and love from the original film and its first two sequels ( 1972's _shaft's_big_score ! _ and 1973's _shaft_in_africa_ ) , richard roundtree , once again plays john shaft , who still runs a private investigation firm in new york city . 
however , the focus of the film lies on his same-named nephew ( samuel l . jackson ) , who , as the film begins , is a cop whose take-no-crap demeanor constantly leaves him at odds with his superiors . 
when a privileged young man named walter wade jr . ( christian bale ) accused of a brutal , racially-motivated murder is allowed to be released on bail , a disgusted shaft leaves the force and decides to take matters into his own hands as a p . i . 
but that's easier said than done , for also standing in the way of shaft and his way of justice is peoples hernandez ( jeffrey wright ) , a dominican gangster who is hired by walter to rub out waitress diane palmieri ( toni collette ) , the only eyewitness to his crime . 
peoples--or , rather , wright is also the big obstacle in jackson's way toward commanding this film . 
peoples is more of an outrageous comic character for most of the running time , and wright is insanely funny during these stages . 
however , he isn't so funny as to make the character come off as goofy and buffoonish , and peoples' eventual turn to more serious villainy is seamless and believable ( which probably would not have been the case had he been played by original casting choice john leguizamo , who bowed out before filming ) . 
it's no easy task to steal a film from the jackson ( who is his usual captivating , charismatic self here ) , but that's exactly what wright does--and makes it seem effortless . 
then again , with such a talented ensemble surrounding him , it is not too surprising that jackson's impressive star turn doesn't quite tower over the rest ; he is strongly complemented not only by wright but all his other co-stars . 
bale has already proven his ability to play an uppity killer in _american_psycho_ , so it only follows that his performance as a similar , less exaggerated character would be spot-on . 
collette lends the film some convincing and welcome dramatic weight as the frightened , conflicted diane . 
busta rhymes brings some good laughs as shaft's sidekick rasaan . 
registering not as strongly--but through no fault of their own--are vanessa williams ( as tough narcotics cop carmen vasquez ) and a dismayingly underused roundtree ; they simply are given little to do in the script credited to richard price , singleton , and shane salerno . 
 ( jackson also has little to " do " in a sense ; some throwaway footage during the opening credits aside , his shaft doesn't even have one sex scene . ) 
that singleton once again proves his ability with actors is an especially good thing since he's not really an action director . 
this is not to say that he does a bad job with the numerous gunfights and the requisite foot and car chases . 
they move well ( as does the film as a whole ) and are reasonably exciting ; it's just that there's nothing terribly inventive about them . 
these set pieces are functional in the way the script is : they work well enough , but they're unsurprising and conventional . 
but if there's anything that a _shaft_ movie does well , it's make the familiar look cool--and this _shaft_ keeps that tradition alive . 
from the slick title sequence--scored , of course , to isaac hayes' ever-infectious oscar-winning theme song , which singleton wisely sprinkles throughout the film--on , the film looks great and easily sweeps the viewer into its world with its energetic bravado . 
even a common visual trick such as employing fancy wipes for scene transitions not only feels unforced , it feels necessary . 
style doesn't exactly make for a great film , but when it comes to _shaft_ , that's of little consequence . 
what matters above all else is having a good time , and the latest _shaft_ should be just the first of many fun rides to be had with this bad mutha--shut your mouth .
0	0	that is , unless you're one of those people who have seen the preview a thousand times on tv or in the theaters . 
i can tell you one thing now : they gave the entire movie away . 
why someone would want to base an entire movie on one premise and then give that crucial detail away in the trailers is beyond me . 
however , if they * hadn't * given it away , the film would've still been suprisingly devoid of suspense given its subject matter . 
obviously , the producers thought they could remake " the deep end of the ocean , " throw in tommy lee jones and a couple of cliches and call it an action drama . 
 " double jeopardy " offers solid acting from ashley judd and tommy lee jones , who got first billing even though he didn't see to be on screen half as much as judd did . 
it also offers some genuinely funny , clever , or full-of-tension moments ( my favorite : judd waking up in the coffin ) , but none of that can salvage the film from its insanely predictable plot . 
half the time i'm wondering whether i'm watching one of those overhyped tv miniseries , which always turn out to be less exciting than advertised . 
judging by the beginning , end , and a huge chunk of the middle , i might have been watching a special hallmark presentation too . 
the movie's stretching for an almost two hour long film with only 30 minutes worth of material . 
implausible material , no less . 
loose interpretation of one of the amendments aside , too many times in the movie i thought , " that is * not * possible * . " 
that kind of stuff is excusable in popcorn movies , but not one like " double jeopardy " that tries to pass itself off as serious drama . 
everything seems dragged out , overplayed . 
when they should've kept us in the dark , they let the cat out of the bag too early .
0	0	don't let this movie fool you into believing the romantic noirs of william shakespeare . 
no one will truly understand the heart and soul of this man except through his work , and this movie makes a vain attempt at that . 
any moves to ? glamorise' his life , which hollywood has an annoying tendency to do , will only subtract from his achievement rather than expound on his greatness . 
this movie about his life , although well written , puts too much make-up on a man whose life was probably more pork and potatoes , rather than lobster and champagne . 
oh well , let's fantasise onwards an assume that he was a bit of a flirtatious play-write , who falls in love with a beautiful woman ( gwyneth paltrow ) and from her inspiration , several plays develop - ? romeo and juliet' , and ? the twelfth night' . 
it is easier for me to believe that he had a wet dream and that's how all his plays develop , but please spare me all of this unnecessary melodrama . 
but i guess my version probably wouldn't draw a crowd or make a dollar on screen . 
so is there any justification in romanticising the man shakespeare , when all we need to do is read his work in order to find his soul . 
i think not . 
as for the oscars were they deserved by this movie ? 
i think not . 
in many aspects ? private ryan' and ? life is beautiful' were far superior movies , but one should never assume that this should be a criteria for winning an oscar , as time and again , for reasons unexplained , an undeserving movie will win the accolade . 
another sore point is the fact that gwyneth won the best female lead , over a more polished cate , but i guess if you go on enough about your grandfather dying and your nephew being hospitalised - people will start feeling sorry for you .
1	1	martin scorsese's triumphant adaptation of edith wharton's the age of innocence is a stunning film for the quintessential new york filmmaker , the man who brought the streets of taxi driver and mean streets to life . 
it seems like an odd choice for scorsese to do a period piece in the early 1900's , but the fact that he pulls it off so brilliantly is a wonder , and a testament to the greatness of scorsese as a filmmaker . 
this is a gorgeous visual experience that it surely one of scorsese's finest . 
newland archer ( day-lewis ) is a prestigious lawyer who is engaged to may welland ( ryder ) , a somewhat empty and shallow new yorker , who belongs to a prestigious family and is quite beautiful . 
the marriage is one which will unite two very prestigious families , in a society where nothing is more important than the opinions of others . 
on the day that archer is to announce his engagement to may , countess ellen olenska ( pfeiffer ) , cousin of may , walks into archer's life . 
archer is immediately captivated , and finds himself in love with ellen . 
archer is also bound by the limits of new york society , which is an intrusive as any other in the world . 
archer finds himself having a secret love affair in his mind with countess olenska , attempting to keep her in his mind while trying not to lose his social status . 
the film's subject matter may seem alien to scorsese , but the theme is definitely not . 
it is a theme of forbidden romance , guilty pleasures , and the consequences causes because of those actions . 
there is a painstakingly flawed hero , and his choice between the life he wants , and the life he is destined for . 
in truth , it is a film about a society the audience doesn't know about , but wants to find out more , much like the society of goodfellas or even kundun . 
the performances are absolutely breathtaking . 
day-lewis portrays more mental anguish in his face than one man should be forced to take . 
pfeiffer is marvelous as countess olenska , a mix of passion and beauty that the audience would die for as well . 
ryder is probably the gem of the group , for it is her quiet presence that overwhelms the plot , and slowly pushes day-lewis closer and closer to his eventual ending . 
the supporting cast is also wonderful , with several characters so singular that they are indelible in one's memory . 
scorsese definitely has a passion for filmmaking . 
his lavish and sumptuous set design and marvelous recreation of new york is a wondrous sight . 
he literally transports the viewer to another world with incredible imagery . 
his script is also excellent , slow in buildup , with a rapid conclusion and a fantastic ending that has to be seen to be believed . 
it is difficult to make a period piece gripping : scorsese , however , does it beautifully . 
the famous cameras of the legendary director are also everywhere . 
he is patient , but he films everything and anything remotely important . 
the cameras sweep , pan , track , and do more than they've ever done , but they are so subtle , one doesn't realize he's watching all the scorsese hallmarks until a 2nd viewing . 
the central tracking shot is probably longer and more complex than the famous goodfellas shot , but the viewer doesn't notice it , because we want to see more of this gorgeous world . 
there are a few deft touches of filmmaking that are simply outstanding , and joanne woodward' narration is exquisite . 
not a fast film like goodfellas , this shares more in common with kundun than anything else . 
and like kundun , this is a slow-starting film that truly shines , when given the chance to fully breathe and bloom in the end . 
a beautiful film by a director continuing to challenge himself year after year .
0	0	hav plenty , as we are told in the beginning and reminded during the film , is a true story . 
life itself is a series of true stories , but most are not movie material . 
as scripted , directed , and acted by cinematic newcomer christopher scott cherot , hav plenty limps along at best . 
its dialog is so stilted - " you know what they say , 'no women ; no cry . ' " 
- that the actors are content to read the screenplay rather than invest much energy in trying to act it . 
in the story , lee plenty ( cherot ) is a 28-year-old author and teaching assistant . 
the movie , which happens mainly over the new year's holiday , consists of a series of incidents in which various single and married women try to kiss lee or take him to bed . 
since he consistently refuses , caroline gooden ( tammi katherine jones ) figures that he must be gay . 
eventually he and havilland " hav " savage ( chenoa maxwell ) get together , proving that he wasn't gay after all , just picky . 
sexy women can sit on his lap and ask him to go to bed with them , but he will not even kiss them . 
he's a man who knows his mind , which he frequently shares directly with the audience in a series of trite and overly cute monologues . 
filled with wealthy african-americans , the story is closest in tone to love jones , which was better . 
hav plenty's story doesn't go anywhere . 
at the end it subjects us to lee plenty's new film , which is a movie of the movie we've just seen , but with even worse acting . 
 " remember folks that , as outrageous as this all seems , this is a true story . " 
hav tells the camera , but the problem is that it's not outrageous at all or even the least bit interesting . 
hav plenty isn't so much a bad film as it is a total waste of the audience's time . 
hav plenty runs 1 : 32 . 
it is rated r for profanity and would be fine for most teenagers .
0	0	it used to be that not just anyone could become a vampire . 
usually , you had to be an aristocrat - a count such as dracula or karnstein . 
to qualify , you'd have to have a modicum of sophistication , so you'd at least look cool - or suave - when biting into some young damsel's throat . 
but today , in our overly politically correct world , any scuzzy-looking , long-haired , unshaven lout or any spiked-haired harridans can put the bite on you . 
by the same token , to be a vampire hunter , one had to have some sort of medical training and knowledge of the occult or maybe perhaps be some sort of professional soldier , or at least one who retired with honors . 
not in these times . 
all you need are some sharp weapons , some bullets forged from silver and any yahoo can be a buffy - or a blade . 
without sounding elitist , the fear of vampires has greatly diminished because of this lack of exclusivity . 
which brings us to blade , the latest in a long line of vampire movies in which , it seems , half the population is putting the bite on the other half . 
not only are there thousands of vampires , but they seem to move from city to city , pay off police departments and , most importantly , establish their own exclusive after-hours raves in which the highlight is the sprinkler system going off and dousing all the occupants in a blood shower . 
with all that blood , you wonder why they have to hunt for victims . 
you also wonder when they get the time to get their clothes dry-cleaned and why no cleaner ever complains about all the bloodstains . 
blade , which is based on a marvel comic book character , is , like a comic book , all visual . 
the plot is basically blade repetitiously slashing his way through the vampire army seeking their leader , deacon frost . 
it's all hokum and nonsense , of course . 
but the filmmakers play it straight . 
unfortunately , at least at the advance screening i attended , the audience didn't see it that way and laughed through much of the proceedings . 
you know a movie is in trouble when the scenes of blood and gore that should elicit screams of fright instead evoke peels of laughter . 
another tell-tale sign is when the audience seems to be admiring the hero's costume more than the hero . 
also it seems it's not enough for today's vampire merely to have fangs . 
he must also be proficient in the martial arts . 
why a supernatural being , one of the undead , needs such skills is beyond me . 
 ( of course , this concept dates to the 1974 hammer films-run run shaw production of legend of the seven golden vampires , in which dracula is defeated by seven karate-chopping siblings . ) 
wesley snipes is buff as blade . 
he growls his lines -the few he has - and spends most of the time glowering - as if he was suffering from indigestion or having second thoughts about starring in and co-producing this turkey . 
blade is just another example of how the vampire film , a once honorable member of the horror family , has gone downhill . 
this dud mostly makes you yearn for those quaint old days when christopher lee could be stopped just by dangling a crucifix in his face . 
today's vampires lack the panache , the style of a bela lugosi or a christopher lee . 
they are not even worthy enough to carry those great bloodsuckers' capes . 
they are more farcical than frightful . 
this whole enterprise is one dull blade that could have used lots of sharpening .
0	0	note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
 " quick , robin ! 
the anti-shark repellant ! " 
- adam west in the 1966 batman feature film , casually kicking at a pathetic-looking rubber shark attached to his leg 
i had never thought that an entry in the modern incarnation of the batman feature film would approach this level of campiness , but in many instances batman and robin nears , and at some point even exceeds this standard . 
this is a disasterously bad film , easily the worst in the series to date , and fairly epitomizes a cinematic definition of the word excessive - it's loud , garish , and obnoxious , with pointless , gratuitous action sequences and set pieces which clutter up the screen with elaborate production design to the point of overkill . 
batman and robin features the caped crusaders ( george clooney debuting as batman , with chris o'donnell returing as robin ) squaring off against another bevy of chemically-induced villains - the nefarious ice-cold mr . freeze ( arnold schwarzenegger ) , armed with a weapon which freezes everything in its sights , and the slinky poison ivy ( uma thurman ) , who has the ability to blow powerful love dust into the faces of men in order so that they will fall helplessly in love with her ( not that the dust is really necessary to accomplish this result , but whatever ) , and then dispatch them with a poisoned kiss . 
by ivy's side is the giant steroid monster bane ( jeep swanson ) , a grunting hulk of a beast . 
the villains' goals are noble ones - freeze steals diamonds to power his climate suit ( in order to keep his body temperature at zero degrees ) , so that he can survive in order to devise a cure for his beloved wife ( vendela ) , dying of a degenerative disease and frozen in suspended animation , and ivy's intent is to restore the dominance of plant life on earth , albeit by destroying all human life . 
meanwhile , on the homefront , life at wayne manor is thrown into upheaval by the illness of butler alfred pennyworth ( michael gough ) , and the arrival of his niece barbara ( alicia silverstone ) . 
akiva goldsman's screenplay for the film is ridiculous and laughably bad , with astonishingly terrible dialogue , lame jokes , and an awful by-the-number plot which simply coasts along and fails to generate any genuine excitement . 
it makes goldsman's screenplay of batman forever , which i thought was dreadful , look positively inspired in comparison . 
i am still astonished that a cheesy plot device which i'd seen used in - no joke - an episode of gilligan's island somehow make its way into a multimillion dollar blockbuster production . 
joel schumacher's direction of batman and robin is horrific , with a terrible balance of flashiness over substance . 
there is a clear conceit towards neon in this film , even moreso than with his previous batman forever , with the revamped batcave helpfully sporting gigantic glowing emblems for the dynamic duo ( just in case , i suppose , if they ever happen to forget that the batcave is the headquarters of batman and robin ) , and with neon prominently figuring in an utterly-pointless fight sequence with bane and a street gang over ivy's chosen new abode . 
another action sequence which fails to serve any useful point other than to chew up five minutes of screentime involves an incredibly uninvolving late-night motorcycle race with barbara and some gotham goons . 
mr . schumacher's focus for batman and robin appears to be to make the film as visually striking as possible , to the detriment of the story - there are drastic shifts in the tone of the film between all-out camp and heartfelt drama , with the latter completely unconvincing and ineffective . 
it is perhaps not the most promising of signs when the group i was with burst out laughing within twenty seconds of the film's opening , even before a single line of dialogue had been uttered . 
is batman and robin supposed to be campy ? 
i think it is - it's hard to imagine that the filmmakers could have intended many parts of the film to be taken at all seriously . 
 ( one of my favourites was when bane helpfully grunted " bomb ! " 
each time he laid down an explosive device in the gotham observatory . ) 
is it supposed to be as overly campy as it turned out to be ? 
i somehow doubt it - the subplot involving afred is delivered so solemnly and with such graveness that the impression is made that the film isn't attempting to be the utter farce which it is . 
arnold schwarzenegger is top-billed in the film as the villainous mr . freeze , and is bland and uninteresting , perhaps the worst thing that a villain can be . 
mr . schwarzenegger's attempts to be menacing are laughable , and his attempts at conveying pathos are laughable ; frankly , everything he does onscreen is laughable . 
by the end of the film , i was stifling a chuckle every time he simply appeared onscreen . 
the bulk of his performance consists of uttering near-unintelligble puns and one-liners featuring every possible permutation of " cool ! " 
in the least inventive way . 
george clooney has been given very little to do in batman and robin , being overshadowed by the villains , and consequently he looks rather uncomfortable in the film . 
his batman is hardly an imposing figure . 
chris o'donnell is unimpressive in a one-note performance , while alicia silverstone lackadasically fails to make any impression at all . 
the film's one saving grace ? 
undoubtably uma thurman's entertaining performance as sexy villainess poison ivy . 
her work in batman and robin is certainly over-the-top , but in a controlled fashion which works splendidly within the tone of the film . 
ms . thurman's comic timing is impeccable , and reminds us that it takes skilled performers to make campiness work successfully . 
 ( i'm already starting to positively reassess jim carrey's performance in batman forever . ) 
her amusing poison ivy is the most entertaining character in the film , and when she's offscreen the film greatly suffers . 
i figure that if one has to die , being kissed to death by uma thurman isn't a half-bad way to go . 
while batman and robin was hardly a ride of pulse-pounding excitement , i must admit that i was not bored watching it , although i did glance at my watch repeatedly through the screening - my attention was kept through anticipation of the utterance of yet another terrible pun or one-liner , and by awaiting yet another scene to fall flat . 
it's been a long time since i've laughed so much at a movie . 
 " at " , of course , is the operative word .
0	0	after seeing blaze and driving miss daisy , i was ready for some mindless fun--oh , maybe something like tango & cash . 
maybe not ! 
mindless fun is one thing , but brain-dead slop is another matter altogether . 
tango & cash has " lowest common denominator " written all over it . 
the movie stars sylvester stallone and kurt russell as rival undercover cops in l . a . russell plays cash , a reckless slob who dresses in jeans and tee shirts . 
stallone plays tango , a wealthy investor who works on the force strictly for the thrill of it ; he doesn't need the money . 
in an effort to change his image , stallone goes for a yuppie , gq look in the film , wearing spectacles and three piece suits . 
the two detectives reluctantly become partners after they are framed for murder and have to break out of prison to clear their names . 
tango & cash is unbearably noisy . 
for starters , there's harold faltermeyer's annoying synthesized score , which gets old after four notes . 
to make matters worse , the filmmakers seem to think that when it comes to loud explosions and screeching cars , the more the merrier . 
in fact , the movie begins with not one but two car chases . 
there's nothing like a good old car chase to introduce the characters in a movie . 
screenwriter randy feldman's brain must have gone to mush from watching too many cop shows on tv . 
his shockingly stupid screenplay undermines anything and everything the movie has going for it , such as stallone's efforts to convince you that tango is an intellectual . 
in a movie with the iq level of an amoeba , even a great actor is going to have trouble looking intelligent--and stallone is no lawrence olivier . 
it's hard to imagine anyone reading feldman's script and thinking , " i want to be in this movie . " 
the film's plot doesn't have one original bone in its body , and--again--you have to point your finger at the screenwriting . 
feldman's story line succumbs to every crime thriller cliche in the book , making tango & cash altogether generic and predictable . 
they simply could have called it " action movie . " 
every character , every twist and turn , is stolen from television or from other movies . 
adding insult to injury , tango & cash is about as believable as a " road runner " cartoon . 
action movies don't have to be realistic , but they should absorb you enough so that you're not thinking about the lack of realism . 
the only artistic aspect of tango & cash is the cinematography . 
there are some spectacular shots , especially during the rainy nighttime prison break in which tango and cash slide to safety on electrical wires . 
the film's main draw is the chemistry between stallone and russell . 
unfortunately , their relationship rarely progresses past macho competition as they endlessly bicker about who packs more meat in his pants . 
the dialogue consists of nothing but one-liners , and consequently the attempts at character development are embarrassing . 
it's a shame because with a workable screenplay , russell and stallone could have turned tango & cash into a charming " lethal weaponesque " adventure . 
tango & cash tries to maintain a light tone , and you do laugh about once every five minutes . 
seeing russell in drag is the movie's funniest moment , but you probably already have seen it in the commercials . 
furthermore , the light tone does not sit well against the relentlessly brutal violence . 
machine guns and torture generally don't mix well with comedy . 
jack palance appears in tango & cash doing what he does best : playing a sleazy , conniving villain . 
his character , however , is run-of-the-mill , except for his strange obsession with mice . 
like many movie villains , palance likes to play games . 
in fact , he sets a ridiculously elaborate trap for tango and cash , a trap which sends the two detectives to prison so they can be beaten and electrocuted by some meanies in the boiler room . 
you have to wonder why palance doesn't just shoot the detectives in the head ! 
the story would crumble if any of the characters were to do anything intelligent . 
teri hatcher plays stallone's sister and russell's love-interest , and she is just as pretty as can be . 
but regrettably , hatcher's acting is not on par with her exceptional beauty . 
every time she opens her mouth , you cringe ; corny dialogue and atrocious acting are always a fatal combination . 
there's really very little , if anything , to recommend in the film . 
and , more to the point , tango definitely isn't worth a penny of your cash--so don't bother .
1	1	there must be some unwritten rule that states , one gets enlightenment not in the way one expects to get enlightenment but in the commitment given to seeking wisdom , even if it is a foolish road one is on and it seems to be leading nowhere . 
in the exotic morocco of 1972 , a 25-year-old english hippie mother , julia ( winslet ) , of two sweet young girls , the 6-year-old lucy ( carrie ) and the 8-year-old bea ( bella ) , has arrived for a year's stay , with the self-absorbed mother oblivious to how her daughters might be adjusting to this foreign experience while she is searching for a change of life from her unfaithful poet husband ( she is not officially married to him ) and her cold one-room london flat , and is sort of looking for the eternal truth in the sunny climate of marrakech . 
at least she says she is , as she is making some attempt to contact a sufi sheikh there who has all the answers . 
she has not planned things out too carefully , having no money , and the trip doesn't seem like it's much fun , more like a misadventure , with some romance with a local moroccan thrown in . 
drugs , a world-wide youthful phenomena during this period , where many westerners came to morocco to smoke the good hashish found there and to live the 'good life' cheaply , and to be in a spot where they did not have to worry about being hassled by the local authorities , even though drugs are illegal there . 
but this is not shown as one of her reasons for being here . 
in this film , the subject of drugs is never broached , only hinted at in an off-handed but slurring way , as the hippie commune is shown in a negative light , strumming on their guitars and bragging about the hits of acid they have taken . 
even the ones coming here for spiritual reasons , to follow the mystical sufis , seem lost following a culture that is far different from where they were coming from . 
the film is based on the novel that contained the autobiographical experiences of sigmund freud's grand-daughter , esther freud , who traveled here in the 1960s with her mother and sister . 
it is written by the director's brother , who has previously directed regeneration , the playboys , and trojan eddie . 
the title of the film comes from the squealing giggles that saying hideous kinky gives the little girls . 
with julia strapped for cash and not receiving a needed check her husband often forgets to send her , she is prevented from seeing the greatest living sufi who is located in algeria ; so instead , she meets an acrobat street performer in the bazaar , bilal ( said taghmaoui ) . 
he becomes her lover , taking the place of her husband as a father figure for the girls . 
the girls readily accept him , and there is no big-to-do made about their openly sexual relationship , but the girls really don't know what to make of the relationship . 
it especially bothers bea , who is embarrassed by her mother's loose attitude and wants to go home . 
things go surprisingly sour when bilal takes them to stay in his small village . 
it seems only that bilal's charm is matched by his shiftlessness , as he has a wife who still lives there . 
this scene didn't make too much sense as to why he would take them there knowing the situation , unless the uneducated man was totally uneducated in the customs of his people , also . 
but i doubt that . 
the family is now stuck without money in a backward area trying to decide what to do next , as they hitch a ride away from there with a truck driver who nearly kills them when he falls asleep by the wheel . 
lucy takes it all in stride and has a good disposition for travel , while bea just wants to go to a school and learn something and be a 'normal' girl . 
the beauty of marrakech is matched by the terrific performance of kate winslet , as the film accurately encapsulates the timeless city and its bustling street scenes , expansive views , illustrious mosques , and grand sunsets . 
kate enacts the feel of what it was like to be a westerner , living out the countercultural experiences while awaiting to gather her sensibilities again and was fortunate enough to be able to go home the better off for her experiences , as many a drop-out reluctantly had to do after their stay ran out of money and purpose . 
the background music from groups like america and jefferson airplane , provided further nostalgia for this easy to look at and easy to grasp film . 
the only hope was that the two innocent girls would not be permanently harmed while on this sojourn , a venture that should be reserved only for those of college age or older who choose to go there for themselves . 
the family's travel , which is on the edge , has julia waking up screaming from dreams that are bleakly haunting ; but , when she gets up , all there is , is this splendid emptiness all around her and a vacuous life that is starting to bother her . 
that marrakech is disarmingly gorgeous and that london is old hat to her , is starting to wear thin in her thoughts . 
it will dawn on her , when bea takes ill , as she reflects on what the sufi guru tells her , whom she finally meets and is driven to tears in his presence . 
he is the guru who replaced the one she wanted to see but who died before she got a chance to see him . 
the new guru is grounded in reality , something she is not grounded in , and seems to tell her what she couldn't comprehend from anyone else , even comforting her , by telling her that her tears are memories- a gift from god . 
the film's weakness was the empty feeling i got from watching the story unfold in its risk free tenor ( she was there basically to be just escaping from her situation ) and how unappealing the love affair seemed between bilal and julia . 
the storyline about a helpless single parent , detracted from the vibrant experiences many others of her same baby-boom generation had during their trip to morocco , who were taken in by the mystical culture of sufism , a teaching that has a lot to offer its followers , contrary to the impression the film might give , seemed to pass her by . 
her knowledge of that trip is only surface deep , at best . 
she perhaps would have been better off not taking the kids along , smoking some hashish , and have been less assured of herself but to have behaved more like a hippie and she wouldn't have been so uptight all the time and had some fun on her journey . 
after all , the mystical trip is the journey . 
the film's strength is in how all the characters are shown for what they are , and no one is that good or that bad , or judged too harshly for their shortcomings . 
bilal is unreliable but is capable of generosity . 
the little girls are precocious but they are lovable . 
julia , the cornerstone the film is built on , is a mother who cares about the children but doesn't know how to take care of them without unintentionally harming them . 
she was trying to escape from reality and that by returning to london , she has another chance to see if she can find the key to this world or whatever world she is looking for and should no longer have nightmares about where she's at . 
this is a very freudian way to look at things , as this sudden realization , that things are not right puts an an end to her eastern hippie odyssey , at least , for the time being . 
and , after all is said and done , who's to say if the children are also not better off for surviving their experiences , just like she probably was !
1	1	almost a full decade before steven spielberg's saving private ryan asked whether a film could be both " anti war " and " pro-soldier " , john irvin's hamburger hill proved it could . 
lost in the inundation of critical acclaim that greeted oliver stone's platoon , this excellent film was dismissed as " too militaristic " . 
it's hard to understand exactly why---unless irvin , in assembling his motley collection of young men who for predictable ( and often naive ) reasons " chose to show up " for the vietnam debacle , ---has refused to present us with the stone killer , drug-stoked psycho and ruthless opportunist who have become to vietnam war epics what " the polack , the hillbilly and the kid from brooklyn " became to wwii movies . 
hamburger hill , based on a true story , is not an easy film to watch . 
there is a scene that will have graying anti-war activists squirming in their seats , or moved to genuine tears . 
and the climactic final assault on the " hill " in question is visually confusing . 
gristly realities are presented in brief flashes , as if the brain dared not acknowledged what it had encountered . 
and in the mud and smoke officer and enlistee , veteran and " newbie " , black soldier and white , become almost indistinguishable from each other , as they do in the chaos of actual combat . 
the acting throughout is solid with an absolutely stellar performance rendered by courtney b . vance as doc--in a role that will have many flatly disbelieving that this is same actor they cheered as " seaman jones " in mctiernan's red october . 
if you've seen private ryan , you owe it to yourself to see hamburger hill--if only to determine that the all the valour and horror of spielberg's vision was as present in the ashau valley as it was at omaha beach .
1	0	veteran actor clint eastwood has never looked as grizzled as he does in true crime , his latest directorial effort . 
when steve everett ( his newest character ) gets angry at someone , he glares them down with those famous dirty harry eyes , furrows his brow and frowns like a grizzly bear who's just lost his cubs . 
eastwood has played some particularly despicable characters in his time , but everett could just take the cake . 
he gets my vote , at least , partly because `ev' is a drunken affair-a-week womanizer who has many relationship problems , very few of which are with his wife ( diane venora ) . 
when his colleague at the oakland tribune is in an ugly car wreck and dies , everett must take over for her at a vital interview session . 
the interview is with frank beacham ( isaiah washington ) , a death-row inmate set to die at midnight for the murder of a pregnant convenience store clerk . 
eastwood furrows his brow . 
as everett gradually finds information , he realizes that beacham could very well be innocent . 
he interviews a key witness ( michael jeter ) , who claims that he burst in the door at pocum's foods because his car had overheated , only to see beacham standing over the dead woman's body , blood on his suspenders , gun in hand . 
but everett protests : how could he have seen the gun , which was lowered by his side , with the potato chip rack in front of him ? 
jeter doesn't know what he's talking about . 
eastwood furrows his brow . 
crinkled expressions and all , clint is the centre of energy of true crime . 
the film is by no means a standard action/suspense yarn , but a thoughtful human story in which the characters come before the shoot-outs . 
isaiah washington has a break-out performance as frank beacham , and scenes with him and his weary wife ( lisa gay hamilton ) are truly heartfelt moments . 
but the best scenes are ones that feature eastwood duking it out with those in authority over him . 
denis leary , as everett's editor and boss , has more than a few memorable moments of restrained anger ( you see , ev is sleeping with his wife ) . 
but hands down , the most enjoyable segments of the film are when james woods is on camera . 
playing the big boss alan mann , woods and eastwood create amusing chemistry and laugh-out-loud punchlines . 
when true crime opts for a high-speed chase to the governer's house at the finale , the quality of film-making takes an abrupt nosedive . 
eastwood was so successful with colorful character portraits that he didn't need to switch lanes . 
true crime is a tension-building , intriguing drama showcase for the talented director and star . 
this is a road block he could have easily dismissed ( i furrow my brow ) . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1	1	capsule : the best place to start if you're a jackie chan newcomer . 
roars along , never stops for breath , and frequently hilarious . 
to talk about jackie chan as a " stuntman " is to miss a million things . 
jackie is not only one of the most accomplished and fearsomely unafraid physical adepts on the screen today , but also a very funny guy . 
he reminds me of the way arnold schwartzenegger * used * to make me laugh -- he's funny just standing there , copping a look . 
supercop has jackie making us laugh , scream , duck , root , and gasp for breath , often all in the same scene . 
it's actually the third in a loosely related series of movies , each with jackie playing kevin chan , a hong kong policeman who has a knack for getting neck-deep into trouble and then karate-kicking his way out of it . 
 ( the others are also worth seeing . ) 
it's a little slow to start , but once it gets moving , it's a field day . 
the movie has a fairly sophisticated plot for movies of this kind . 
kevin is tapped for a dangerous dea assignment to be accomplished in mainland china , which requires him to collaborate with the attractive ( and ass-kicking ) chief fo chinese security ( played here by the ever-enjoyable michelle yeoh ) . 
there's a fun chemistry between the two of them , especially in an early scene where she tries to brief him and he keeps making wondering comments about how great she looks in that uniform . 
kevin is assigned to help spring a known gangster from jail -- all undercover , of course -- and have him lead the two of them to a noted drug boss . 
the drug boss , however , has problems of his own : his wife's on trial for many of his own crimes , and she's got the key to an account with all of his drug funds . 
this means , of course , endless trouble -- not the least of which is that kevin bumps into his girlfriend while he's out in the field , and she sees him with this other woman , and . . . but that's one of the movie's unique pleasures : the way it crosses from action to comedy effortlessly . 
action . there is , of course , non-stop action in this movie -- everything from one-on-one kung fu to all-out gun battles to a sppedboat with eight engines ( ! ) 
outrunning the hong kong coast guard . 
there is also a virtuoso climax , which features , among other things , jackie danging from a ladder tied to a helicopter , a wrong-way freeway chase ( which requires michelle to do an awesomely difficult handstand stunt ) , a fight on top of a moving train that also involves the 'copter as well as a motorcycle . 
you get the idea . 
this is to action movies what a burger with everything on it is to fast food : quick , enjoyable , filling . 
watch it with friends . 
when they stop making movies like this , the world will be a tad greyer .
1	0	mars attacks ! 
 ( 1996 ) - c : jack nicholson , glenn close , annette bening , martin short , danny devito , rod steiger , pierce brosnan , sarah jessica parker , michael j . fox , jim brown , pam grier , joe don baker , natalie portman , christina applegate , lisa marie , tom jones . 
this is director tim burton's finest film to date . 
many will compare this tale of martians who invade earth to independence day , but even though the stories are similar , they really are two distinctly different films . 
however as a whole , mars attacks is much more entertaining than id4 , and i loved id4 . 
you really have to be in the right frame of mind to enjoy this film . 
it is completely wacked-out and unlike anything you've ever seen . 
once the silly tone of the film is set , it's easy to just sit back and throw logic out the window because logic and comedy just don't mix . 
the plot is simple : martians invade the earth . 
but it's different than any other invasion film . 
usually it's the evil aliens versus the heroic humans . 
this time however , it's the goofy aliens versus the equally goofy humans . 
the martians , who are all computer generated , are just about the funniest things i've seen in a long time . 
they look funny , they move funny , and their " language " is hilarious . 
and about the special effects . 
the effects in mars attacks ! 
are just about the most flawless ones i've seen to date . 
the computer animation of the martians combined with the goofy personalities they are given makes them seem 100% real . 
there are just a couple of scenes that don't work , mainly those involving sarah jessica parker and pierce brosnan on board an alien ship . 
also , glenn close overacts tremendously in her ( thankfully ) very limited screen time , so much so that i actually applauded silently when her character meets her demise . 
but there are many big laughs in the film , as i said , if you are in the right mood . 
could it have been funnier ? 
certainly . 
was it funny enough ? 
yes . 
was i entertained ? 
absolutely . 
on a personal note , i'd like to thank whomever cast rod steiger ( my favorite actor ) in the film as war-crazy general decker . 
finally , after many very small parts in direct to video garbage and minor tv roles , steiger is back on the big screen in a real movie that many people will see . 
while he's not given the type of role that you can give a real " performance " in , he does the job well and has some good lines of dialogue . 
the preview audience i saw the film with really seemed to enjoy him .
1	1	when i first heard about scream in 1996 , i was told that it was a spoof of horror movies . 
from the master of the horror himself , wes craven , it ridiculed the cliches of the genre by overemphasizing them , by making the teenagers do what they know they're not supposed to do when a serial killer is stalking them ( don't run up the stairs when you can easily go out the front door , never say " i'll be right back , " etc . ) . 
when i first heard this description , i figured that it was an easy way out of making a bad movie . 
how hard is it to make an extremely terrible film but claim it is actually a mockery of other bad movies . 
was this wes craven's remedy from making " real " bad movies such as vampires in brooklyn ? 
it just seemed cheap to me . 
then i actually saw the movie and the first twenty minutes , involving drew barrymore and a nail-bitingly intense phone conversation , completely changed my attitude . 
scream is not only a clever parody of your standard horror flick , it's also a pretty scary movie . 
if you've seen a million of these kinds of films , you know exactly what is going to happen . 
this is part of the fun of watching scream . 
the movie reminds avid horror fans how similar and repetitive the genre is and it also reminds them how great a guilty pleasure it can be to watch pointless and predictable violence to innocent , attractive teenagers . 
to those who rarely see these types of movies , scream is a thrilling unpredictable ride that could be mistaken as a serious slasher film . 
there's nothing wrong with that misjudgment though . 
i have witnessed viewers from both sides of the audience , the newbies to horror and the fanatics . 
their opinions on the film were so different but both very positive . 
from these varied reviews , i am convinced that scream has not only revived the teen horror movie and the normal teen romance movies but also the hilarious parodies of these and other categories . 
films that both deride and celebrate genres like galaxy quest and the big hit would not have existed , in my opinion , if it was not for the outstanding success of scream . 
the low - budget 1996 gem may , alongside pulp fiction , be the most influential film of the 1990's . 
this influence may exist to the chagrin of some moviegoers who despise movies like teaching mrs . tingle or television programs such as dawson's creek but to others such as myself , we congratulate the movie that has opened new doors for excellent young actors , screenwriters , and directors . 
scream is also an extremely funny movie thanks to its quickly-paced script by kevin williamson . 
within the film are characters who tell other characters , as well as the audience , the basic rules and cliches of a horror movie . 
mainly from the rants of randy ( jamie kennedy ) and stu ( matthew lillard ) , we are reminded not only of the obvious and hilarious rules but also some of the more subtle stereotypes that when thought over are mostly true as well ( the virgin always survives ; have sex and you're dead meat ) . 
not only are we treated these rules on a plate but also the rules are referenced to a number of different films and actors . 
the script feels like an obsessive essay from a college film geek who has nothing better to do but find every little blunder from every little film for his own self-satisfaction . 
in this case , williamson finds these errors for the audience's satisfaction and amusement . 
i hear there is a new movie coming out called scary movie which is a spoof of scream , which is a spoof of scary movies . 
i will certainly see the film but i have the feeling that this parody will be more obviously ridiculing the genre rather than scream's perfect subtlety . 
however my last gut feeling about this stuff , scream , was dead wrong . . . 
so who knows .
0	0	ex-universal soldier luc has to battle a group of newer-model engineered fighters gone bad . 
the review 
jean-claude van damme has a one-liner early on in universal soldier : the return , his latest attempt to remain relevant , that sums up this entire movie ; he says " been there , done that . " 
no film critic could possibly sum up van damme's recent film choices any better . 
while other ageing action stars have wisely moved into other film genres ( schwarzenegger makes as many family comedies as he does action films ) , van damme stubbornly persists in sticking with what used to work for him : martial arts and guns . 
this unwillingness or perhaps inability to move into new genres has caused van damme to enter the straight to video world , with legionnaire never seeing the inside of a multiplex . 
he joins fellow martial artist/action star steven seagal as they watch their film careers rapidly fizzle away . 
universal soldier : the return is truly poor . 
the plot is a complete copy of several action films from this decade , specifically terminator 2 : judgement day and the similarly named soldier . 
soldier's kurt russell was an older model super-soldier sent off to retirement when circumstances forced him to battle his successors , for the good of a planet ; schwarzenegger's terminator in t2 tried to save john connor from a newer model killing machine , the t-1000 ; and jean-claude , a former universal soldier , has to save the planet from the rampage of a group of , you guessed it , newer model soldiers . 
considering the poor box office performance of soldier , it's amazing that this project was ever given the go-ahead . 
luc devereaux ( van damme ) was the sole remaining universal soldier ( or unisol for short ) , until he was returned to a normal , if muscular , human form . 
in this sequel ( technically the fourth film in the series , following two straight-to-video duds that were ignored here plot-wise ) , luc is now a human trainer/consultant of sorts for the unisol program . 
working with dylan cotner ( xander berkeley , who interestingly also appeared in t2 ) , the unisol program has engineered a tougher , fiercer fighting force with the help of super-computer seth . 
unfortunately , upon hearing that the program has been axed by the government , seth takes control of his soldiers , killing everyone in the building except for luc , his partner maggie , his daughter hillary and erin , a reporter trapped inside . 
the rest of the film involves luc trying to keep them all alive , while beating up a group of near-indestructible soldiers , most notably romeo ( popular wrestler goldberg ) . 
there are lots of fights , gun battles , lame plot developments and a noticeable lack of plausibility . 
there are so many clich ? s in this film that it is almost painful to watch . 
luc gets saddled with the task of saving erin the reporter early on , and in the course of a single night , they go from bickering to falling for each other , to kissing . 
erin is a pathetically-written character ; people are getting brutally gunned down all around her , and yet , not only does this not seem to frighten her , but she finds time to remind luc that she " isn't leaving without her story " . 
whatever . 
other laughable moments include a ) luc going to a strip club to get internet access ( what ? ) and b ) a group of rangers , who after having been given good advice ( luc tells them that their weapons are useless , and shows them a specific gun which should work better ) , choose to go into battle with their useless weapons anyway ( guess who wins the battle ? ) . 
not one single scene in universal soldier : the return has any originality to it . 
when fuelled by don davis' loud , driving music score , the film's many fights become almost passable , but mostly are full of the same ol' jean-claude moves . 
director mic rodgers ( a former stunt co-ordinator ) keeps the action coming at a rapid pace , with only a few token serious moments to be found . 
his past work is evident in the many moments when characters are thrown through windows , tossed off of buildings or sent flying through the air thanks to an explosion . 
if only jean-claude weren't getting so old and slow compared to younger martial arts film actors like jet li , rodgers could probably have made a decent action film . 
to place the blame squarely at van damme's feet , however , is an injustice . 
i'm not sure that anyone , not even robert deniro or edward norton , could make writers william malone and john fasano's script sound good . 
one particularly painful scene is when erin asks luc how he is so sure that the aforementioned strip club will have internet access . 
he cringes , looks down and mutters " uh . . . uhm . . . 
they all do , i saw it on 60 minutes . 
eh he he he " the script's and indeed the entire film's only saving grace is goldberg . 
he chews up every scene he is in , obviously enjoying his role immensely . 
he even gives the film a few laughs , as he mutters things like " i really don't like that guy " every time he fails to kill luc . 
sadly , his presence is not enough to turn universal soldier : the return into anything better than a below-average action film that truly deserves to have joined its fellow sequels by going straight-to-video .
1	1	in this good natured , pleasent and easy going comedy , bill murray ( ghostbusters , 1984 ) plays grumpy weatherman phil conners , who , every year , is sent to punxsutawney , p . a , to report on groundhog day . 
the groundhog day ceremony involves a groundhog being lifted out of a box , and if he dosen't see a shadow , it will be an early spring . 
phil really hates the ceremony , and not even his producer rita ( macdowell ) can change his mind . 
however , fate has a cruel trick for phil , and he starts re-living groundhog day over , and over , and over , until he gradually likes it , and rita falls in love with him . 
groundhog day is a well written , totatly unoffensive and funny comedy . 
the screenwriters , director ramis and danny rubin , have written a funny , warm , but never overly senitmental comedy . 
although the idea of a day repeating over and over may sound tedious , there are enough good jokes to hold the audiences attention throughout the whole film . 
ramis's direction also helps , and although he dosen't try any flash director tricks , the film is directed well enough , and the jokes are set up well . 
and the editing is also good , especially when it shows one part of the day over , and over again , such as when phil tries to have the perfect night with rita . 
the performances are also excellent . 
bill murray is great fun , and his transistion from cynical to happy is smooth , and delivers his lines in his usual smary style . 
andie macdowell is good as rita , although sometimes she is just a little bit too sweet in some parts of the film . 
there is chemistry between the two leads , thankfully , otherwise the whole film would probably fall part . 
chris elliot , as the cameraman larry , is also funny , although you have to like his goofy style , otherwise you are really going to hate him throughout this film , and it will lower your enjoyment of the film overall . 
the supporting cast aren't bad either , with stephen tobolowsky hillarous as phils old school mate ned ryanson , and even director ramis popping up as a neurologist . 
in fact , there is not one dud performance in this film , and even the groundhog gets a funny scene involving a car chase . 
overall , there is really nothing wrong with groundhog day at all . 
it almost seems perfect . 
however , the film can get a bit soppy sometimes , and some people may get irritated by the day repeating over , and over , and over , and over . 
also , there's not much of an music score , and the music there is is pretty bad . 
but these criticisms hardly affect the audiences enjoyment at all . 
overall , then , groundhog day is a funny , smart , and also has some room in there for some heart . 
an excellent comedy . 
overall rating= (
0	1	in 1970s , many european intellectuals , especially those on the left political hemisphere , became obsessed with the rise of fascism . 
which wasn't so hard to expect , because the social turmoil of 1960s and economic decline of 1970s seemed to be the breeding ground for many dangerous ideologies . 
in such times , when political involvement could be associated with noble passion , many filmmakers tried to warn the present generations of dangers that lurk ahead by giving the look of pre-war europe and circumstances that led to phenomena like fascist italy and nazi germany . 
of course , there were authors who jumped on the bandwagon for other , less noble reasons . 
for them , moral depravity of fascism could be explained to the audience by explicitly showing sexual depravity of those era . 
which , naturally , made some of those films very popular among teen audience . 
one of such filmmakers was italian director tinto brass , who later made career shooting expensive , stylish soft porn . 
salon kitty , his 1976 film , is very losely based on the novel by peter nordern , book that deals with bizarre yet true story that took place in the first years of ww2 . 
in 1939 , walter schellenberg , one of the heads of nazi intelligence service has set up the elite , exclusive brothel in berlin with clientele comprised of top nazi officials and foreign diplomats . 
none of the customers knew that the girls were all nazi agents , and that all the rooms happened to be bugged . 
the most bizarre thing is the fact that not even kitty , nominal madame of the brothel , didn't know the real purpose of that enterprise . 
screenplay by tinto brass , of course , simplifies the story and changes few names . 
schellenberg is now wallenberg ( helmut berger ) , ambitious nazi official who wants to use the brothel in order to blackmail his way to the top . 
kitty kellerman ( ingrid thulin ) , apart from being madam , has a second job as a cabaret singer . 
caught in the net of depravity is sweet , innocent girl margerithe ( theresa ann savoy ) thrown into brothel . 
there she falls in love with customer hans reiter ( bekim fehmiu ) , disenchanted pilot of luftwaffe . 
when margerithe discovers that her lover had been executed for defeatist speeches he made in the brothel , she finds out that the place is bugged . 
she informs the madam of the real situation , and both women decide to confront wallenberg . 
those who tend to bash benigni for exploiting holocaust as the topic of comedy would probably go bananas watching this film , that uses the darkest pages of european history for cheap sexploitation . 
but , although salon kitty doesn't happen to be anything more than rather more stylish and expensive soft porn ( although not very successful ; some of supposedly erotic scenes are quite unappealing ) , it does try to have more multidimensional characters and even something resembling dramatic conflict - this time between power-hungry and scruples wallenberg and hedonistic womanhood symbolised by kitty . 
unfortunately , brass seems to overuse other cinematical references , probably thinking that he could repeat the successful interaction of berger and thulin in luchino visconti's the damned , but the most noticeable and irritating is ingrid thulin's unsuccessful attempt to imitate lisa minelli's musical numbers from cabaret . 
all in all , salon kitty is failure , although with some very interesting moments .
0	1	the following review encompasses two versions of dune : 
dune : the theatrical version ( 1984 ) runtime : 137 minutes capsule review : cut down to just over two hours by nervous studio executives , the theatrical version of dune is a spectacular mess and may be incomprehensible to those unfamiliar with the book . 
the film's visual splendour , mystical beauty and impressive action scenes only partly compensate for gaping holes in the narrative . 
dune : the extended version ( 1988 ) runtime : 189 minutes capsule review : a bit of a throw-together assembled by mca tv special projects for cable television . 
it was disowned by director david lynch but it's considerably closer to his original vision by virtue of its improved characterisation and clearer storyline . 
quality dubs of this version from the out-of-print japanese laserdisc release are available from various dealers on the world wide web . 
 * * * the review * * * 
released in 1984 and made on a then mammoth budget of $40 million , the film of frank herbert's cult novel dune was eagerly awaited by sci-fi fans . 
director david lynch ( blue velvet , eraserhead , twin peaks ) was working on his biggest production to date , a mammoth undertaking filmed under trying conditions on location in mexico . 
the screenplay was lynch's own , chosen after the script submitted by original author herbert was rejected . 
dune is set in a universe ruled by powerful families overseen by a successive line of emperors . 
the key to cosmic power is the planet arrakis ( dune ) , a windswept desert planet that's home to giant sandworms and the precious spice melange . 
the spice is the most valuable commodity in the universe . 
it extends the life and expands the consciousness of those who consume it . 
most importantly , it allows the navigators of the spacing guild ( once human but now hideously mutated ) to " fold space " and navigate their spacecraft across mammoth distances instantaneously , enabling interstellar commerce and trade to flourish . 
lynch's film by necessity excises parts of the book while retaining the story's two main strands . 
one is the long-standing rivalry between two families , houses atreides and house harkonnen , and their battle for lucrative mining rights on arrakis . 
the second strand is the emergence of young paul atreides as the reluctant messiah long-awaited by the natives of arrakis , the fremen . 
the deeply religious fremen want control over their homeworld , and young paul may be the fulfilment of their prophecy that a man would come from the outer worlds and lead them to freedom . 
unfortunately , this epic story unfolds in a confusing and haphazard manner in the theatrical cut of the film , which runs 30 to 60 minutes shorter than what lynch originally intended . 
the thinking among universal's oh-so-wise money men was that films over two hours in duration were not popular with audiences at the time and would not do well at the box office . 
with lynch's initial cut running at closer to three or more hours , the studio demanded that further cuts be made . 
what a great idea ! 
why not trim down an already complex film so as to make it almost incomprehensible ? 
the most glaring consequence of this one-eyed stupidity is a hopelessly jumpy narrative , leaving us with badly underdeveloped characters . 
thus their personalities are vague , their motivations unclear and , in the case of paul's father duke leto , their demise rather meaningless . 
the end result is a distinct chill : we can't warm to most of the cast and we don't care much for them . 
and it hardly helps that the voice-over narration is sparse and that the dune-esque language and terminology sounds like so much gobbledegook to those unfamiliar with the book . 
dune is also a very serous film . 
the constant " self-talk " by various characters makes it so serious and self-absorbed at times that you may find it hard not to wince with embarrassment . 
the overall impression is a world full of people so intense that no one is allowed a joke lest the universe come crashing down around them . 
humour - or at least a gentle kind of humour as distinct from the harkonnen's mad , sadistic kind - is hard to find . 
you may balk at the comparison , but as a writer lynch could well have done with some lessons from george lucus' star wars trilogy . 
the theatrical version is still some way from being a complete disaster , however . 
it still possesses enough of lynch's stylistic quirks and enough visual invention to sustain the interest of viewers with a taste for imaginative sci-fi . 
special effects whiz carlo rambaldi's giant sandworms are an awesome sight . 
both the production design ( anthony masters ) and costume design ( bob ringwood ) are striking and original . 
and the magnificent score by toto and brian eno is one of the most underrated soundtracks of the last twenty years . 
with these elements in place and the benefit of freddie francis' lush cinematography , the film is at least a feast for the senses . 
see it in the widescreen format if you can . 
and despite all the cuts , several cast members still make a strong impression , most notably kenneth mcmillan as the supremely nasty baron vladimir harkonnen . 
sian phillips also registers strongly as the reverend mother gaius helen mohiam , leader of the bene gesserit religious order who's secret aim is to manipulate paul's destiny for its own shadowy ends . 
as paul atreides , the young kyle maclachlan starts off somewhat shakily , but as his character grows in strength so does his performance and he emerges as a credible leader of the fremen crusade . 
the conclusion ? 
any assessment of this film must take into account that frank herbert's original novel is a complex piece of work and presents a tough challenge for any filmmaker . 
david lynch took a brave stab at it and , partly due to forces beyond his control , ended up with an officially released version that fails in several key respects . 
dune certainly confused and frustrated a lot of people on its release . 
many chose to stay away altogether , as the film's disastrous box office showing attests . 
the extended version , however , is a rather different beast . 
in 1984 lynch stated his intention to release his own special edition " director's cut " of the film on home video , a clear indication of his dissatisfaction with the version that ended up in the theatres . 
but , alas , he failed to do so , choosing to move on to other projects . 
in a way , then , it is partly lynch's own fault that what appeared instead was an unauthorised extended version , put together in 1988 by mca tv special projects for airing on cable networks in the usa . 
stung into action , lynch successfully petitioned the director's guild to take his name off the credits and replace it with " allen smithee " , the standard pseudonym for directors who wish to disown their own work . 
he also had the screenwriting credit changed to the anonymous " judas booth " . 
certainly , looking at the results of mca's handiwork there's at least half a dozen instances that , for sheer technical sloppiness , are good enough reasons for the director to object . 
but these gripes must be considered in light of the improvements that the extended cut of dune offers in several crucial areas . 
most of the changes involve the restoration or extension of cut scenes and the addition of extra narration , both of which fill many holes in the original version's storyline . 
paul's relationship with his father and associates is more intimate , with moments of humour and warmth lacking previously . 
the political skulduggery involving the emperor , the spacing guild , the bene gesserits and the two warring houses is far better explained . 
paul's initiation into the fremen way of life on arrakis is also fleshed out considerably . 
and as further background , a new prologue has been added featuring narration and painted stills to give us a brief history of the dune universe . 
as a piece of storytelling , then , mca tv's version of dune is clearly superior . 
as a piece of editing , however , it is at times surprisingly inept . 
the use of painted stills in the new prologue works well enough , but their occasional appearance once the action begins is inappropriate . 
there's some sloppy cutting , too , and in a few instances shots even appear out of order . 
and the use of repeated footage to fabricate certain scenes ( eg . 
ships coming and going , soldiers coming and going ) is at times clearly out-of-context . 
this is the kind of thing to which lynch objected , and rightly so . 
it should also be noted that several questionable scenes and shots from the theatrical version were deleted to satisfy the censorship demands of u . s . television . 
but the most notable omission is a gratuitous piece of nonsense from lynch that wasn't even in herbert's book . 
the scene features baron harkonnen killing a beautiful young man in front of his slobbering henchmen by pulling out his " heart plug " . 
its a surreal and disturbing episode that's very lynch-esque but adds nothing to what we already know : the baron is a nasty piece of work . 
despite its own peculiar flaws , then , the extended version of dune is a generally superior film . 
all up , it contains 35 minutes of restored footage and approximately another 15 minutes of either altered , fabricated or newly created sequences . 
unless the idiosyncratic lynch has a sudden change of heart , the " alan smithee " version remains the closest we'll get to what the movie should have been . 
on repeated viewings , one suspects it is closer than what lynch would be prepared to admit . 
still , as one of this century's great science-fiction novels , some fans and perhaps the late herbert himself would argue that dune deserved a better fate in its transfer to the screen . 
with rumours circulating of a new six hour mini-series planned by production company new amsterdam entertainment in 1998 , it is unlikely that we have heard the last of the dune saga .
1	0	showgirls is the second major outing for the production team of pual verhoeven , director , and joe eszterhas , writer . 
their last effort , basic instinct , played like the most sumptuous of classic hitchcock , with a dash of raw sex and sensuality that made it come across with a hit like curry-spiced tabasco sauce ; a dish not to everyone's taste , but certainly a well-crafted movie . 
possibly that movie's greatest strength was that the most important events happened offstage , prior to the movie , during the movie , and after the movie . . . 
and that , after bringing all the plotlines together neatly , it left the viewer with full knowledge of what * would * happen in the characters' future , so there was no need to film it . 
there was actually about four hours' worth of screen story there , but eszterhas found ways to get it all on-screen in two , by leading his audience into analyzing what was really going on ; and by still holding their interest with clever misdirection and false trails . 
the major elements that made basic instinct work so well are present in showgirls . 
we have attractive , sympathetic , but still highly repellent characters ; we have shows for the eyes and the ears , plotlines that play on several levels , we have beautifully delineated characters who are drawn from life and very believable , and we have a story of an innocent ( who may not be so innocent ) who's trying to play straight , trying to improve her station in life , who slips into behaving the way those around her do . . . 
but recovers with a flourish , and quits a winner . 
in this sense , the movie is a bit of a departure for verhoeven , who's not known for treating his characters well ; but nomi , the part played by elizabeth berkley , definitely opts out of the game in a positive way , and we're left feeling good about her future . 
this is not one of the great movies , but it's far better than we'd been led to expect by all the negative pre-release publicity . 
verhoeven got his first oscar nomination in 1971 , and in the last quarter-century has pushed farther and farther , experimenting with the socially-acceptable limits to movie-making . 
his most recent three movies , robocop , total recall , and basic instinct , have been a progression of back-door access to american culture , moving from the fantastic through the merely psychotic to the underlying basic drives ; and now he's exploring the sleeze . 
this movie may be the first movie ever made for which the director's contract contained a specific provision that he would not have to deliver an r rated movie . 
 ( verhoeven had to cut several parts of basic instinct to get an r rating , although his original version is available on video . ) 
many reviewers have taken the politically-correct stance that any movie which uses naked ladies as scenery is a bad thing ; but they miss the fact that this movie is not about naked ladies , it's about people in an environment where naked ladies are common , and why such an environment should exist . 
it's about the scum who use other people as power-trip toys , and the need to escape their power . 
it's about a world where sex is nothing and normal human values don't pertain ; and the lack of sexual excitement and passionate heat in even the most blatant scenes is something of an accomplishment . 
an nc-17 movie which isn't sexually exciting says a great deal about the phoniness and emptiness of a social stratum where sex has been robbed of any kind of beauty , power , or value . 
the one scene in the movie that * could * have been a good sex scene , berkley and maclachlan in a swimming pool , is not exciting , because by then we already know his character is a callous manipulator . 
if anything , it's a rape scene with a victim who's been duped into cooperation . 
you don't make a movie about the history of black people in america without using a few black actors ; you don't make a movie about world war ii without a few guns going off and a few people getting killed ; and you don't make a movie about las vegas showgirls without showing a few las vegas showgirls . . . 
and in an awful lot of vegas shows , an awful lot of ladies wear very little clothing . 
this is a legitimate portrayal of a rather seamy side of the entertainment industry , in a town where sex is simply a negotiable commodity . 
showgirls de-glamorizes the las vegas show and sex industries with great effectiveness . 
nomi is played , in a very good performance , by elizabeth berkley , who gives us a solid picture of a woman with limited talents who's at the end of her rope , desperate to live a life better than the one she's known . 
she has nothing to market except her body and her limited dancing ability , and is trying desperately not to to be a hooker , trying to be something better than she seems destined to be . 
when nomi realizes she's gone too far for too little , she catches herself just in time to save the most essential part of who she wants to be . 
gina rivera plays molly , a dressmaker and costumer who befriends nomi , providing her with what may be the one solid , positive relationship in nomi's entire life . 
molly is the one who makes the difference , and provides the role model and framework nomi needs to verify the value system she'll be using for the rest of her life , and nomi's feelings for molly are the spur that forces nomi's decision . 
gina gershon plays cristal , an aging , but still very attractive starring dancer , a reflexively competitive manipulator who's become a villainess by internalizing the ethos of the crooks and scum around her . 
gershon plays cristal as a cross between ava gardner and raquel welch ; a fading talent made bitter by self-awareness . 
her character is very well drawn and performed ; in a major scene in a hospital room , she acknowledges what she is , and , in essence , passes the torch to nomi . 
the relationship between the two of them is the most honest one in the movie , and provides part of the impetus nomi needs to follow a different path . 
it is no accident that the three important parts in this movie are women of different stripe ; molly is an honest , hard-working person who means well , and nearly dies because she confuses the glitter and the image with reality . 
cristal is a talented dancer who's compromised her ideals and sold herself to be a co-operating part of the system , exchanging self-respect for the species of stardom that can be had in las vegas . 
nomi believes she can make it without selling herself , succumbs to a degree , and then realizes she can make it without selling herself , and doesn't need las vegas or its brand of " stardom . " 
the male parts in this movie are simply props ; they exist only to demonstrate and explicate the cultural milieu against which showgirls exist . 
kyle maclachlan , whose single best previous work was as an inhumanly emotionless cop in the hidden , gives us a nicely reptilian bit of pond scum on two legs , camouflaged as a nice guy . 
glenn plummer plays a dancer who's working as a bellboy , and provides a bit of alternate perspective . 
plummer's character is the only one in the movie who's maintaining an interest in dance as a performing art , but even he's succumbed to the cult of manipulation . 
plummer's character is the closest thing to a sympathetic male character in the whole movie . 
some of jost vacano's cinematography is fantastic , and one particular delineation of nomi's character alteration , a no-dialog scene using nothing but color changes in the lighting , is utterly terrifying . 
this movie is rated nc-17 due to language , sexual situations , full frontal nudity , violence , and probably the costuming as well . 
i don't see a way this particular story could have been told well without it , and i regard it as a legitimate exercise in movie-making . 
but don't go see it if you're not in a tough mood ; the only person it's possible to like in this movie ends up in an i . c . u . 
on life support , and there is probably not one character in this movie you'd enjoy meeting in person .
1	1	albert brooks saves the day , just in the nick of time . 
with a very poor summer for movies , brooks is just what audiences were looking for to cheer them up , and does so in a positive way . 
while this may not be his finest work , " the muse " still shakes up some delightful humor . 
in albert brook's latest comedy , he tells a story of a troubled screenwriter ( brooks ) who's losing his edge , as his business partners say . 
in desperation , he goes to see his friend jack ( jeff bridges ) , who has been a very successful screenwriter in the past . 
he asks jack for some help , and recieves word of a real life muse , that has helped him and many other directors throughout their career . 
so brooks seeks the muse named sarah ( sharon stone ) , and is suckered into buying her expensive , food etc . as a sort of payment . 
the real punch line however , doesn't come until the end . 
it really makes you wonder , how screenwriters really get their ideas , could it simply be from a friend or a bum in the street ? 
the idea itself is provoking and brooks does it in a hilarious manner . 
speaking of brooks , he was absolutely hysterical as a screenwriter . 
every time he graces the screen , i can't help but start laughing . 
albert has a very unique sense of humor that makes him a very likeable character . 
the real problem with the film lies with sharon stone . 
she wasn't likeable at all . 
brooks had the right idea with her occupation , but she never pulled through . 
in a way , she drained energy from the once funny atmosphere and left it bleak . 
luckily brooks could clean up the mess , and cover for stone's mishap . 
it was a shame that the film went slightly downhill after her appearance , because " the muse " had the potential to a be a very authentic comedy . 
on a brighter note , andie macdowell was also charming as brook's wife . 
she is always a nice addition as a supporting actress , because she has that charisma that seems to complete the atmosphere to any film she's in . 
the funniest moments in " the muse " in my opinion were the cameos by james cameron and martin scorsese . 
i mean imagine , brooks seeing these big named directors in his back yard seeking sharon stone for advice , like it was something out of the ordinary . 
it was just plain hilarious . 
it just adds to the satire joke , of how directors get ideas . 
brilliant move by brooks . 
as i mentioned before , the film is a satire much like it's proceeder bowfinger , which came out a few weeks before . 
unlike bowfinger , this is not a mean spirited film that's desperate for jokes , it's rather a witty and humorous look at hollywood . 
 " bowfinger " had it's moments , but had quite a few problems that were never worked out , but " the muse " still managed to keep the laughs despite a bit of a detour . 
by the end of the film , you're glad to see a good hearty comedy come out of it . 
for once i'm not fully disappointed , because the film didn't slow down , it kept moving , even with some flaws . 
thumbs up to brooks for his brave effort . 
i think he'll still manage to keep his edge around well into the future .
0	1	for his directoral debut , gary oldman chose a highly personal family drama about a violent , alcoholic husband and father , and the various lives he affects . 
but while the characters , places and events may have special meaning to the writer-director , the audience is left in the dark . 
the center of this tale is the abusive raymond ( ray winstone ) , and the film focuses on him and the people who orbit around him . 
he spends his days hanging out with his friends at pubs and girlie bars . 
then , he returns home to his pregnant wife , valerie ( kathy burke ) and their five-year-old daughter . 
raymond demonstrates his violent tendencies ( and his paranoid delusions ) early on when he accuses valerie's brother , billy ( charlie creed-miles ) , of stealing . 
raymond then proceed to beat ( and bite ) him to a bloody wreck . 
but these are the least of billy's problems . 
billy is a heroin addict on the downturn , and it doesn't seem that he'll last much longer . 
billy and valerie's mother , janet ( laila morse ) , is raymond's nemesis . 
she disapproves of him ( and he of her ) , but is powerless to do anything about it . 
she merely struggles on , hoping her children will survive their respective torments . 
if this description seems bleak , i haven't told the half of it . 
this is not a cheery movie , and most of the time it's downright depressing . 
while at times it is interesting to watch to see just what makes raymond tick , and why no one ever simply calls the cops on him , in the end , it's not quite worth it . 
there are too many scenes which randomly dot the picture with little or no purpose . 
take for example the extended sequence where one of billy's scuzzy friends defends a stray puppy . 
the film is filled with these " character moments " that never really achieve anything . 
granted , there are a few genuinely powerful ( and sickening ) moments in the film , but their expression seems to be more of a catharsis for the creator than us . 
the actors do a fine job , particularly in the central roles . 
the good thing about an actor turned writer is that oldman knows how to write good scenes , and the actors in nil by mouth have some meat they can tear into . 
the bad thing about an actor turned director is that there's no one to restrain oldman from making poor choices . 
a good character drama should mean something to those involved in making the film and the audience . 
oldman got it about half right .
1	1	lisa cholodenko's " high art , " is an intelligent , quiet drama . 
its strongest quality , aside from the top-notch central performances , is the perceptive way in which the film , also written by cholodenko , observes its characters . 
they are all flawed people , some more troubled than others , but they are not judged . 
judging the characters in this picture would be a creative misstep on the filmmakers' parts , because no one , no matter how bad off they are , deserve to be negatively judged if they are involved in some serious problems that they cannot break free of . 
syd ( radha mitchell ) , a 24-year-old woman living with her longtime boyfriend james ( gabriel mann ) , has recently been awarded an ideal job at the high-profile photography magazine , " frame . " 
she very much enjoys where her career is headed , but is often not taken very seriously by her managers , who are always giving her petty jobs to do , when she knows she could be doing more important things . 
one night , while taking a bath , syd notices a leak coming from the apartment above hers , so when she goes up there to inform them of it , she meets lucy beliner ( ally sheedy ) , a thin , worn-out , and unhappy woman , who lives with her drug-addicted german girlfriend , greta ( patricia clarkson ) , a pathetic former actress who is usually so out-of-it that she often is in and out of conciousness . 
syd quickly strikes up a conversation with lucy , and discovers that she used to be an acclaimed photographer ten years before . 
lucy claims she doesn't want to get back into the profession , but syd manages to convince the " frame " editors to do a piece on her work . 
all the while , syd begins to grow deep feelings for lucy , even though she has never previously been attracted to a woman , and lucy starts a battle with her personal demons . 
 " high art , " is such an effective motion picture because it is never suger-coated or idealized , but instead an honest and convincing portrait of a handful of unhappy people whose lives are going nowhere , while syd's luck begins to rise . 
the film in no way is about lesbianism , but about love , which was a refreshing change of pace from the usual stereotypical portraits of homosexuality . 
as lucy and syd grow closer and closer together , we really do believe that they are falling in love with each other , even if the relationship might be doomed . 
with this picture , ally sheedy's star has risen once again , thanks to her touching , nearly flawless portrtayal of lucy , a woman who , in the course of a decade , has found her life consumed almost entirely by drugs , which has taken away her once-blossoming career . 
her characted really is tragic , and one particular scene involving lucy and her mother , in which lucy admits to her that she has a drug problem , and her mother matter-of-factly responds by saying she can't help her , is heartbreaking . 
although not autobiographical , sheedy has had drug problems in her past , and i suspect she brought that knowledge of already being in lucy's footsteps to her role . 
also very good is radha mitchell as syd , who previously starred in the slight 1997 australian comedy , " love and other catastrophes , " wh caught me by surprise with her performance . 
easily being able to pass as christina ricci's older sister , mitchell obtains the same natural charisma that has made ricci so popular recently . 
as accurate as almost every detail is in , " high art , " i wish the relationship had been more tightly written involving syd and james , who , played by gabriel mann , is left with a throwaway role . 
by the time he finds out about syd and lucy , he disappears from the film , and i wish there had been another scene where they confronted each other . 
this is a very minor fault , however , in a film that is full of riches . 
although many of the characters are stuck in a hopeless pit of despair , syd and lucy are intelligent people who recognize their problems . 
the character of dominique ( anh duong ) , the " frame " editor who decides to give syd a chance with her ideas , was also written to be far more mature than expected . 
and the one sex scene in the film was beautifully and originally done . 
for once , it did not invlove steaminess , or violent sexual activity , or gratuitous nudity , but focused on the actual characters , who love each other , and their insecurities involved in making the decision to actually have sex . 
 " high art , " which won the screenwriting award at the 1998 sundance film festival , marks the superior feature film debut of cholodenko , as well as sheedy's strongest , and best , role to date .
1	1	after the terminally bleak reservoir dogs and the brutally violent pulp fiction , jackie brown seems like something of a light-hearted departure for quentin tarantino . 
it's more of a ho-hum heist story with characters that speak the tarantino language . 
luckily , his showcase of actors convert every morsel of possible enjoyment onto the screen , and jackie brown has no trouble entertaining the average viewer . 
the story introduces us to a street-wise black woman named jackie brown ( pam grier ) , a flight attendant who smuggles money and drugs from one destination to another . 
she works for a bottom-of-the-barrel airline and receives a minimal salary . 
but one day , she is picked up by a pair of federal officials ( including michael keaton as the tough-nosed ray nicolet ) , and found with a handsome load of cash and a small bag of smuggled dope . 
jackie is working for a weapons dealer named ordell ( samuel l . jackson ) , who pays her bail money but suspects her of tipping off the feds about their operation . 
soon jackie and ordell are plotting a way to smuggle $500 , 000 through to them under nicolet's nose , with the help of ordell's oaf of a partner ( robert de niro ) and drugged-out lady friend ( bridget fonda ) . 
also entering the picture is a bail-bondsman named max cherry ( robert forster ) , who takes a liking to jackie and agrees at one point to make the situation even more complicated ( how i won't say ) . 
the big drop-off is undoubtedly the high point of jackie brown , in which numerous double-crosses take place and many clothing store bags ( filled with cash ) switch hands . 
it's unfortunate that tarantino takes his sweet time getting there , and doesn't offer anything extremely compelling while doing so . 
there are , as always , amusing exchanges between characters . 
the funniest repartee is between de niro and fonda , as he becomes annoyed with her constant bickering while making fun of his iq , or lack thereof . 
the most interesting relationship is between max and jackie . 
a 56-year old white bail bondsman and a 44-year old black flight attendant with believable chemistry ? 
you've got to commend the acting . 
jackie brown is a seriously dragged-out exercise enlivened by such fine acting . 
the film clocks in at a lengthy 2 hours , 35 minutes . 
tarantino's talky style manages to hold your attention heavily , but there are more than a few dramatic lapses and crucial lulls in the storyline . 
also , fans of the director should be prepared for a lighter side to appear . 
jackie brown has four major shootings , and two of those take place mostly off-screen , so don't be expecting a typical tarantino bloodbath . 
you can expect frequent foul language , mostly coming way of ordell , who ( much to the dismay of spike lee ) uses the `n' word as part of his regular vocabulary . 
the acting is the glue that holds everything together . 
grier , making a sudden comeback from her reign in the 1970's , is more than adequate for the title character . 
in fact , she's flat-out great . 
another comeback comes from former tv star robert forster , who does a grand job as max cherry , and is perfectly cast in doing so . 
michael keaton makes his presence felt , albeit in small but dignified moments , and de niro is ideal in playing the lug-head who goes over the edge . 
speaking of that , bridget fonda has relatively little to do as ordell's bikini-clad beach babe , and yet she manages to look fairly occupied . 
there's not a single sign of misplaced dialogue or snubbed line throughout the entire movie . 
which is a life-saver for mr . tarantino . 
the story barely holds together in the meantime , and we merely get a small tremor whenever there should be a defeaning earthquake . 
but oh well . 
jackie brown manages to be an enjoyable detour from quentin tarantino , even if it is lacking the glaring and original bite of his previous work . 
let's just hope that the director hasn't gone soft on us .
1	0	let me start off by saying that leading up to the release of the latest bond film , i really wasn't looking forward to it as much as i have with some of the previous films . 
i'm not sure if it was the fairly lackluster trailers or the ever-present dread that the next film will fall back into the miserable ways of the timothy dalton years . 
i'm happy to report that any doubts were erased after about the first 10 minutes of the film . 
by that point , it was evident that mr . bond was back with a vengeance . 
all doubts would have probably been erased sooner except for the fact that the first ten minutes of the film weren't exactly a pleasant experience . 
it seems that nobody told the geniuses working at the theater that the house lights are supposed to be turned off when the movie starts . 
it took a reminder from an audience member to clue them in . 
i guess they can be excused though , taking tickets and cleaning up popcorn between shows is extremely taxing on the brain . 
anyway , after somebody remembered what the light switch was for , i settled in for bond . 
i think the most noticeable aspect of this , the 19th film in the series , is that it really goes back to the almost tongue in cheek style of the roger moore films . 
there were probably more one-liners in this movie than in the last several combined . 
and bond's last one-liner in the film is about the best of the series . 
the world is not enough also contained perhaps the most action of any movie of the series . 
everything from wild boat chases to the usual assortment of cool bond gadgets trotted out just when there seems to be no way out for 007 . 
for the most part , the action sequences worked very well . 
although , there were a couple of times that i thought some things were a bit over the top , even for a bond film . 
i think some of the blame can be laid at the feet of director michael apted . 
while he did a good job for the most part , there were points in the movie , specifically during action sequences , that he seemed to loose site of the fact that he was making essentially an action film . 
most noticeably sequences on a snow covered mountain and one involving bond getting through a closing door looked like apted thought he was filming some sort of high brow art movie . 
he almost seemed like he didn't know what he was doing . 
but they were brief scenes and really shouldn't take away from the otherwise solid job that apted did in directing . 
if you have ever seen a bond film , you won't be shocked to learn that plot has never been their strong suit . 
the world is not enough is no exception . 
this time we have yet another over villain that bond has to stop for the good of the world . 
007 matches wits with the terrorist renard ( robert carlyle ) , a man who has a bullet lodged in his brain that makes him impervious to pain . 
why this point is included is beyond me . 
they took great pains to explain his condition , but it only came up later in the movie as a scene that can only be described as looking like an afterthought . 
anyway , renard , like the typical terrorist that he is , is bent on some harebrained scheme involving a mid-east oil pipeline . 
i guess world domination just isn't as attractive to terrorists as a money making venture anymore . 
bond is brought in to protect the pipeline's owner , elektra king ( sophie marceau ) , who is the daughter of one of renard's recent victims . 
along the way , bond has to enlist the help of a nuclear scientist , dr . christmas jones ( denise richards ) , and his old rival valentin zukovsky ( robert carlyle ) . 
like all bond films , you basically just have to suspend disbelief over the plot , since it is ridiculous beyond words . 
my biggest complaint would be that it was about the most disjointed of any of the bond films . 
there was at least one point that i had to stop and try to remember why bond was where he was and why he was doing what he was doing . 
the buddy that i saw the movie with was completely confused over an earlier kidnapping of marceau's character . 
it was alluded to earlier in the movie briefly -- although not included in the film . 
later , it became a big part of the story and left him with the distinct feeling that he had missed something . 
but because it is a bond film , the beautiful women and nifty gadgets seem to make you forget about script problems quite quickly . 
after all , it isn't shakespeare . 
how about the cast ? 
brosnan seems to get better with each of his appearances as 007 . 
i grew up with the roger moore version of bond , so i really enjoyed the lighter style that brosnan brings to the character . 
judi dench , as m , had a bigger role in this film than in her two previous appearances in the role . 
she brought the talent with her that one would expect from an oscar winner . 
robbie coltrane was easily one of the best parts in goldeneye , so it was nice to see his russian mobster character revived in this movie . 
coltrane gets more screen time , which simply leads to him stealing even more scenes . 
then there are the bond girls . 
sophie marceau might be one of the most beautiful actresses working today . 
there is just something about her breathtaking eyes that makes her a natural to play the innocent victim . 
those that saw her in braveheart know she is more than just a pretty face . 
marceau may be the most talented actress to ever play a bond love interest . 
then we have denise richards . 
there was no doubt in my mind that she was cast exclusively for her looks . 
and after you see the outfits she wears , you won't have any trouble guessing what part of her anatomy caught the producer's eyes . 
i was pleasantly surprised to find that she really did a good job playing a nuclear scientist . 
admittedly , there was one point that the audience snickered a bit at one of her technical lines of dialogue , but other than that she stacks up ( no pun intended ) to her bond girl predecessors nicely . 
i must say that the biggest disappointment was robert carlyle's character . 
while carlyle did a fine job with the material that he had , his character just never worked for me . 
the producers tried very hard to add more complexity to his character , but it just never quite got off the ground . 
i guess i was hoping for a bit more regarding the whole impervious to pain aspect of his character , but the writers decided to play up the emotional side of his character . 
this might have worked well in another movie , but i don't go to see bond movies for their deep characterizations . 
last , but not least , we have desmond llewelyn as q . this is the 17th appearance for llewelyn as bond's gadget guy , and he is as good as ever . 
although his screen time has grown far more limited in the past few films , he is still a treat to watch . 
rumors abound that this may be his last appearance in the role . 
he says future appearances are up to a higher power . 
the producers have introduced his protege and future replacement , a bumbling and somewhat pompous character played by comedy master john cleese . 
while we don't see much of him in this film , i think it is fair to say that desmond llewelyn's legacy , whenever it is passed on , will be in very capable hands . 
so how does it stack up ? 
despite some problems , the world is not enough is a very entertaining movie . 
and , all things considered , what problems it does have are small compared to some that have plagued earlier bond movies . 
this is easily the best of the brosnan films . 
it may even be the best of the entire series , certainly in the top 3 . 
one thing is for sure , even after 19 movies , there is still plenty of life left in the james bond series . 
here's looking forward to bond number 20 .
1	1	the coen brothers are back again , this time with homer's " odyssey " as the backdrop in their tale of three fugitives from a mississippi chain gang who trek across the south to find a secret treasure in " o brother , where art thou ? " 
right for the beginning of " o brother " the coens grab your attention with a chain gang of prison inmates breaking rocks along the road in unison to a work song . 
the camera flows around the hard toiling men , giving a visually exciting symmetry to the scene that ends with our three heroes - ulysses everett mcgill ( george clooney ) , delmar ( tim blake nelson ) and pete ( john turturro ) - escaping across a cotton field . 
it is the beginning of a journey that takes on different meanings and urgencies to each member of the trio . 
a strong suite , as always with the coen brothers , is the depth of character of the folks they create in their films . 
their characters are goofy and comical , like nicolas cage in " raising arizona " ; or , dramatic , as albert finney and john turturro in " miller's crossing " ; and , even a mix of the two with frances mcdormand in " fargo . " 
in all cases , and in " o brother , " too , the characters populating their films are three-dimensional people . 
ulysses everett is a handsome , hair-obsessed petty criminal with a silver tongue and not a lot in the brains department . 
but , he seems like a genius when compared to the simple , sweet delmar and the maladjusted pete , who follow their self appointed leader to a promised treasure of $1 . 2 million . 
their odyssey takes on the mystical proportions of homer's original material as they meet all manner of people along the way , including those dangerous sirens who beckon them onto symbolically rocky shoals and a cyclops who beats them and takes all their money . 
there is magic , too , when delmar believes that pete was turned into a horny toad by the sirens . 
the story meanders through the different vignettes of the boys' adventures , giving the flick a choppy , episodic feel that disrupts the overall flow . 
some of the interludes are an epiphany , though . 
the trio becomes a quartet when they pick up guitar-playing tommy johnson ( chris thomas king ) and visit a radio station in the middle of nowhere , run by its blind owner ( stephen root ) . 
they become the soggy bottom boys for the sightless radio station man and , without their knowledge , are recorded as they sing the traditional tune , " i am a man of constant sorrow . " 
it is a wonderful moment of moviemaking and gives us , in my mind , the best movie song of the year . 
contrasting this and other wonderful moments ( the sexy seduction by the sirens comes to mind ) are some pretentious bits that detract from the overall quality of " o brother . " 
in particular , near the end , is a scene where ulysses , delmar and pete crash a ku klux klan rally to save tommy from being lynched . 
the scene is overblown and flashy and reeks of " the wizard of oz . " 
they don't say " lions and tigers and bears , oh my ! " 
and there's no dorothy , but it is the land of oz we're seeing here . 
the highs and lows of the story flow are tempered by fine acting on several levels . 
george clooney is funny , charming , a little dumb and one of the handsomest actors in the business today . 
he has the charm of a 30's movie idol and is able to put himself into silly situations with dignity . 
ulysses has an ongoing obsession with his hair , risking life and limb to get a particular brand of pomade and a supply of hairnets . 
his vanity will come to plague him as it would any mystical hero-wanderer . 
while clooney is the name draw for " o brother , " the show stealer is tim blake nelson as delmar . 
the heretofore unknown nelson is terrific as the simple convict who , at one point , hears the word of the lord and joins members of a church congregation in their mass baptism . 
delmar is saved and dedicates his life to doing good and provides a richness to his simple character that makes him shine . 
the taciturn pete , as played by longtime coen collaborator turturro , is the sullen member of the trio and gives them the necessary angst . 
all together , the tuneful triumvirate is a mix of the three stooges and the three musketeers as they prove to be buffoons , albeit brave ones . 
the colorful supporting cast is rampant with homerian characters to meet and get to know along the way of the boys' odyssey . 
charles durning appears as incumbent governor pappy o'daniel , who keeps crossing paths with them in his bid for re-election . 
john goodman is wicked as the one-eyed bible salesman and con artist , big dan teague . 
michael badalucco is manic and outrageous as outlaw and bank robber extraordinary , george " babyface " nelson . 
stephen root is amusing as the blind dj , rep'ing one of the many references to the sightless that abound in the film in mystical ways . 
holly hunter is wasted in the small role as ulysses' estranged wife , penny ( and the real reason for this adventure , not secret treasure ) . 
techs are , as expected in a coen brothers venture , first class . 
cinematographer roger deakins , who has worked on five previous coen films , captures the sultry atmosphere of the south . 
the photography complements the lush period production and costume provided by dennis gassner and mary zophres , respectively . 
once again , roderick jaynes - the alter ego of ethan and joel coen - is on board as editor . 
the high points outweigh the low through most of " o brother , where art thou ? " 
with particular praise for the wonderful selection of period and traditional music . 
i give it a b .
1	0	you'd think it would be easy to spoof star trek , but try spoofing it without cruelly mocking it . 
that's a bit more difficult . 
the farfetched sci-fi series is , after all , enormously popular , what with its gigantic fan base and ongoing installments both on television and in movies . 
if you're not nice to it , you lose . 
galaxy quest is to star trek what mel brooks's spaceballs was to star wars , an affectionate , riotously funny parody that freely takes jabs at various elements of its subject but never seems mean-spirited or malintentioned . 
 " the show's been cancelled , but the journey is far from over . " 
that is the current tagline of " galaxy quest , " a star trek - type show that's no longer produced but lives on forever in reruns . 
it also lives on in conventions , gatherings of the show's obsessive fans who never fail to dress in " galaxy quest " costumes and ask absurdly logical questions about its delirious technobabble . 
jason nesmith ( tim allen ) played " commander peter quincy taggart " on the show and is the only one of the cast who still gets excited about the gigs they have to do . 
the attitudes of the rest -- tommy webber ( daryl mitchell , gwen demarco ( sigourney weaver ) , fred kwan ( tony shalhoub ) and alexander dane ( alan rickman ) -- range from indifference to utter contempt . 
dane , who played a spock-like alien , is especially disgusted , considering himself above his demeaning job and stubbornly refusing to recite his character's cheesy trademark line " by grabthar's hammer , you shall be avenged " ( or something like that ) for his die-hard fans . 
one day , nesmith is greeted by an especially fanatical group of " galaxy quest " followers . 
they are actually aliens from a planet known as thermia . 
they have mistaken the " galaxy quest " episodes for historical documentation of actual heroic space travel . 
the next day , the thermians whisk nesmith away to a spaceship to help them defeat the evil sarris ( named , in one of the film's only mean-spirited gags , after village voice film critic andrew sarris ) . 
nesmith thinks it is only an elaborate gig , and sort of blows it off , but when he is transported -- or i should say shot -- back to earth in a rather celestial manner , he believes . 
next thing the cast knows , they are being dragged by nesmith to this spaceship . 
of course , they all think he is out of his mind and once he does convince them that there really is a spaceship , what they want to do is get out of there as fast as the transporters will take them . 
but after some persuading , they stay on to fight the icky sarris and find a way to provide a peaceful existance for the flailing thermians . 
i was quite surprised how well this comedy , which came off as utterly brainless from its marketing campaign , worked . 
taking shots at both the obvious and not-so-obvious elements of star trek and its fandom , galaxy quest never goes for cheap laughs , opting instead for broad but smart parody . 
nothing is safe -- not the cliches , not the fans , not the absurd taglines -- but on the other hand , everything is safe , since galaxy quest treats its subject with utter respect and sometimes even subtle admiration . 
the highlight of the movie is tony shalhoub's fred a . k . a . tech sergeant chen who , when in character , is the complete opposite of scotty from the original star trek . 
while scotty , who was the technician for the enterprise would constantly yell " i need more power down here captain ! " , 
chen's cry for help is more to the tune of " the core , like , won't take it or something . " 
it's a hoot , but it doesn't stop there : weaver , whose character has the menial task of repeating everything the computer says and rickman , with his relentlessly holier-than-thou attitude aren't far behind . 
galaxy quest succeeds as a funny parody of star trek and while it's not a masterpiece -- it tends to falter in its more serious moments -- it is immensely entertaining fluff and excellent counterprogramming to all the sober oscar contenders being released this holiday season . 
by grabthar's hammer , this is a hell of a movie .
0	1	i think that saying that the x-files is one of this summer's most anticipated films is safe . 
for five years , " the x-files " television show has developed a dedicated fan culture , whose rabid devotion to the series rivals that of " star trek " fans . 
the premise of both the movie and the television series is two fbi agents who investigate the paranormal ; fox mulder ( david duchovny ) is the avid believer whose quest to find the truth about extraterrestrial life borders on the paranoid , and dana scully ( gillian anderson ) is the scientific skeptic trying to find a rational explanation to mulder's flights of fancy . 
outlining the plot of the x-files movie is virtually impossible , since to be general would result in confusion , yet to be specific would give too much away . 
nevertheless , i will try . 
 " the black ooze , " and extraterrestrial , virus-like substance is threatening earth . 
a " shadow government " is aware of this , but tries to cover-up the alien existence . 
mulder and scully know " the truth is out there , " and so try to expose both the invasion and the cover-up . 
there are three central questions i have heard asked about this movie : 1 . 
will those who don't watch the series be able to understand the movie ? 
yes . 
isolated as an individual text , the x-files can stand alone . 
they have given enough background for anyone , familiar with the show or not , to understand the movie . 
although some of the secondary characters' histories may confuse the uninitiated , those characters are not essential to the film . 
this is a major problem : they trot out token secondary characters from the series out for an appearance and then disappear just as quickly . 
why bring superintendent skinner into the picture in the first place , and then have him sat silently on an fbi internal affairs committee ? 
why bring in " the lone gunmen , " three computer geek conspiracy theorists , for an even briefer appearance ? 
these characters are recurrent on the series , and their appearance in the film was met with whoops from the audience ( suggesting their popularity among fans - actually most of the audience could pass for " the lone gunmen " ) . 
still , then they vanish just as quickly . 
2 . the television show never gives us any answers . 
will the movie actually explain some things ? 
yes . 
in the x-files we get a fairly complete history of " the black ooze , " what it is and what it wants . 
we finally get some understanding of the motivations behind the " shadow government . " 
there are even some subtle tie-ins with contemporary ufo-ology , including the " greys " and the roswell crash of 1947 . 
3 . is the movie any good ? 
no . the x-files is a dreadful movie and shows some fundamental problems with writer/creator chris carter's talents and the relationship between cinema and television . 
first off , the screenplay by series creator chris carter is sloppy and cliched . 
after approximately forty-five minutes ( the length of a television episode minus the commercials ) , the pace drops to a snail's crawl . 
not long after that point , when carter attempts to answer some questions we have had about the series , we wish he had not . 
the explanations are so trite and ridiculous that one would have preferred it had carter not explained quite so much . 
i am willing to suspend my disbelief a fair bit , but the absurdity carter wants me to swallow was just too much . 
breaking the suspension of disbelief destroys the movie - and listening to other fans leave the cinema , maybe the series too . 
the explanations are not only absurd , they are tired and unoriginal . 
the extraterrestrials breed and gestate like those from the alien series , and their craft looks like a leftover set piece from independence day . 
note that the alien movies , id4 , and the x-files are all from 20thcentury fox - a studio that is beginning to cannibalize itself i think . 
the x-files is noteworthy for being the only movie based on a television series to be produced while the series was still running . 
in comparing the movie and television series certain aspects of the respective media emerge . 
the avoidance of the series to answer the questions it raised annoyed and frustrated many people . 
however , i rather liked that about the series . 
television allows you to impose as much , or as little , meaning on a show as you want . 
it is the proverbial " blank screen " which we project our minds on . 
meaning on television is open and ambiguous ; it is the nature of the medium . 
cinema , on the other hand , is the opposite . 
it projects onto us the filmmakers mind . 
we can , in some films , fill the textual gaps ourselves , but that almost never happens in an american film . 
meaning , in cinema , needs to be self-contained and determined . 
so , when the x-files made that jump from small to big screen , carter needed to take into consideration the differences in the medium as well . 
he did not . 
by making explicit , what the television show left implicit , carter reveals the limits of his creativity and skill . 
when they say that " fans " make a tv show , it is not far from the truth . 
on television , fan culture must impose its meanings on the text because there is nothing there . 
how true that is when we see the " explicit " x-files - there is nothing there . 
the following was printed in the st . john's express , st . john's , newfoundland , canada . 
all views are the authors , but copyright is held by robinson-blackmore , 1998 . 
&nbsp ; 
movie review by mikel j . koven 
&nbsp ; i think that saying that the x-files is one of this summer's most anticipated films is safe . &nbsp ; 
for five years , " the x-files " television show has developed a dedicated fan culture , whose rabid devotion to the series rivals that of " star trek " fans . 
&nbsp ; the premise of both the movie and the television series is two fbi agents who investigate the paranormal ; fox mulder ( david duchovny ) is the avid believer whose quest to find the truth about extraterrestrial life borders on the paranoid , and dana scully ( gillian anderson ) is the scientific skeptic trying to find a rational explanation to mulder's flights of fancy . 
&nbsp ; outlining the plot of the x-files movie is virtually impossible , since to be general would result in confusion , yet to be specific would give too much away . &nbsp ; 
nevertheless , i will try . &nbsp ; 
 " the black ooze , " and extraterrestrial , virus-like substance is threatening earth . &nbsp ; 
a " shadow government " is aware of this , but tries to cover-up the alien existence . &nbsp ; 
mulder and scully know " the truth is out there , " and so try to expose both the invasion and the cover-up . 
&nbsp ; there are three central questions i have heard asked about this movie : &nbsp ; 1 . &nbsp ; 
will those who don't watch the series be able to understand the movie ? &nbsp ; 
yes . &nbsp ; 
isolated as an individual text , the x-files can stand alone . &nbsp ; 
they have given enough background for anyone , familiar with the show or not , to understand the movie . &nbsp ; 
although some of the secondary characters' histories may confuse the uninitiated , those characters are not essential to the film . &nbsp ; 
this is a major problem : they trot out token secondary characters from the series out for an appearance and then disappear just as quickly . 
&nbsp ; why bring superintendent skinner into the picture in the first place , and then have him sat silently on an fbi internal affairs committee ? &nbsp ; 
why bring in " the lone gunmen , " three computer geek conspiracy theorists , for an even briefer appearance ? &nbsp ; 
these characters are recurrent on the series , and their appearance in the film was met with whoops from the audience ( suggesting their popularity among fans - actually most of the audience could pass for " the lone gunmen " ) . &nbsp ; 
still , then they vanish just as quickly . 
&nbsp ; 2 . &nbsp ; 
the television show never gives us any answers . &nbsp ; 
will the movie actually explain some things ? &nbsp ; 
yes . &nbsp ; 
in the x-files we get a fairly complete history of " the black ooze , " what it is and what it wants . &nbsp ; 
we finally get some understanding of the motivations behind the " shadow government . " &nbsp ; 
there are even some subtle tie-ins with contemporary ufo-ology , including the " greys " and the roswell crash of 1947 . 
&nbsp ; 3 . &nbsp ; 
is the movie any good ? &nbsp ; 
no . &nbsp ; the x-files is a dreadful movie and shows some fundamental problems with writer/creator chris carter's talents and the relationship between cinema and television . 
&nbsp ; first off , the screenplay by series creator chris carter is sloppy and cliched . &nbsp ; 
after approximately forty-five minutes ( the length of a television episode minus the commercials ) , the pace drops to a snail's crawl . &nbsp ; 
not long after that point , when carter attempts to answer some questions we have had about the series , we wish he had not . &nbsp ; 
the explanations are so trite and ridiculous that one would have preferred it had carter not explained quite so much . &nbsp ; 
i am willing to suspend my disbelief a fair bit , but the absurdity carter wants me to swallow was just too much . &nbsp ; 
breaking the suspension of disbelief destroys the movie - and listening to other fans leave the cinema , maybe the series too . 
&nbsp ; the explanations are not only absurd , they are tired and unoriginal . &nbsp ; 
the extraterrestrials breed and gestate like those from the alien series , and their craft looks like a leftover set piece from independence day . &nbsp ; 
note that the alien movies , id4 , and the x-files are all from 20thcentury fox - a studio that is beginning to cannibalize itself i think . 
&nbsp ; the x-files is noteworthy for being the only movie based on a television series to be produced while the series was still running . &nbsp ; 
in comparing the movie and television series certain aspects of the respective media emerge . 
&nbsp ; the avoidance of the series to answer the questions it raised annoyed and frustrated many people . &nbsp ; 
however , i rather liked that about the series . &nbsp ; 
television allows you to impose as much , or as little , meaning on a show as you want . &nbsp ; 
it is the proverbial " blank screen " which we project our minds on . &nbsp ; 
meaning on television is open and ambiguous ; it is the nature of the medium . 
&nbsp ; cinema , on the other hand , is the opposite . &nbsp ; 
it projects onto us the filmmakers mind . &nbsp ; 
we can , in some films , fill the textual gaps ourselves , but that almost never happens in an american film . &nbsp ; 
meaning , in cinema , needs to be self-contained and determined . 
&nbsp ; so , when the x-files made that jump from small to big screen , carter needed to take into consideration the differences in the medium as well . &nbsp ; 
he did not . &nbsp ; 
by making explicit , what the television show left implicit , carter reveals the limits of his creativity and skill . 
&nbsp ; when they say that " fans " make a tv show , it is not far from the truth . &nbsp ; 
on television , fan culture must impose its meanings on the text because there is nothing there . &nbsp ; 
how true that is when we see the " explicit " x-files - there is nothing there .
0	0	it's a shame the execution of this concept falls very short of its premise . 
the movie is lacking and most unsatisfying . 
osmosis jones is crude , gross , disgusting , and was directed by the farrelly brothers - the twisted siblings behind there's something about mary , me , myself and irene and a couple of other movies in which the humor is mostly targeted below the belt . 
not that there's anything wrong with scatology . 
i bet even cavemen appreciated bathroom humor - such as it was . 
it's merely that with osmosis jones , the farrellys humor is too juvenile , too predictable . 
you can almost foresee the puns just by viewing the part of the inner anatomy a sequence is drawn . 
osmosis jones looks like one of those old health class movies gone psycho . 
the trouble is , the animation may please the very young , but the jokes may be over their heads , while the teen-age audience may find it too tame for their tastes . 
adults ? well , let's just say most will find it unappetizing . 
osmosis jones plays like a 100-minute infomercial for the eat healthy foods lobby . 
the live action sequences revolve around frank ( bill murray ) , who seems to be the grungiest human being in the universe . 
he continually looks as if he needs a shave and a shower . 
frank , much to the consternation of his daughter , is a fast-food addict , eating anything - and everything - that can kill you . 
he works at a zoo where the animals look cleaner - and presumably smell better - than he does . 
frank's body is invaded by thrax , a lethal virus , after frank eats a hard-boiled egg that had fallen to the ground . 
it's not gross enough that frank picks the egg up from the dirt and plops it into his mouth . 
nope , the farrellys pile it on by first having frank wrestle a chimp for the egg , wresting it from the primate's mouth . 
like i said , the gross meter tips the scales on this one . 
after ingesting the egg , the movie begins its animated sequences . 
here , osmosis jones ( voiced by chris rock ) , a renegade white blood cell is teamed with drix ( voiced by frasier's david hyde pierce ) , a 12-hour , painkiller cold capsule to battle thrax ( smoothly voiced by laurence fishburne ) . 
basically , what we have is a cliched cop-buddy movie , rife with all the clich ? s of that genre . 
and this is why osmosis jones doesn't click . 
it merely falls back on tired , familiar conventions instead of creating new and exciting situations . 
the jokes and puns are lame : osmosis searches out a snitch , a former flu virus . 
after pumping him for information , drix tells osmosis , " funny , he doesn't look fluish . " 
and the jokes don't rise above that level . 
the live action scenes are no better . 
frank is such a slob , so unappealing that it is difficult to fathom how he ever married or even sired a child . 
he's almost a bigger cartoon than the animated characters . 
osmosis jones is a movie that may be too violent for young children as thrax burns and dissolves blood cells right and left . 
the animation is rather two-dimensional and flat . 
it lacks scope and depth . 
it is an unappealing movie that will leave you scratching your head , and maybe leaning toward a shower after you walk out of the theater .
1	1	my filmcritic . com 
colleague norm schrager nailed session 9 , brad anderson's throwback to spooky horror films from the 70's . 
it worked as an eerie homage without being self-referential or smugly postmodern . 
genre aficionados will acknowledge the similarities in tone to stanley kubrick's the shining and george romero's dawn of the dead without being taken out of the engrossing narrative ( i . e . , a psychologically addled waste management team clears out an abandoned lunatic asylum ; unspeakable dread ensues ) . 
in a double-whammy for 2001 , anderson shoots and ( mostly ) scores again with his eclectic riff on time-travel episodes from the twilight zone , appropriately titled happy accidents . 
much like session 9 , the cards are played very close to the vest here . 
is boyish , eccentric " sam deed from dubuque , iowa " a futuristic voyager from the year 2470 or just your run-of-the-mill psychologically disturbed nutcase let loose on the present-day streets of nyc ? 
as played by wonderful character actor vincent d'onofrio ( full metal jacket ) , it's up in the air whether or not we should accept his detailed monologues about life after the polar ice caps have melted . 
the question proves to be moot , at least for a time . 
even if the whole thing proves to be a creative delusion , one agrees with the character judgment passed down on him by his new girlfriend , ruby ( marisa tomei ) : " he's a freak , but he sure tells a good story ! " 
neurotic ruby thinks she may have found true love after a series of nightmarish dating disasters ( the junkie , the fetishist , the artist , the frenchman , etc . ) , but isn't quite sure how to handle " sam deed " when he starts explaining the barcode on his arm , his elaborately constructed fake identity , his pathological fear of dogs , his ability to speak five different languages , and his mission to change a crucial moment in time that may have ramifications on time's alternate realities . 
 ( don't ask . ) 
it's all a bit much to take in . 
ruby's close friend gretchen ( cuz ya can't have a love story without the token friend , though nadia dajani invests the thankless role with warmth ) chalks it up as a sexy role-playing game , but her cautious therapist ( holland taylor ) warns her that co-dependency is rearing its ugly head again and she's in over her head with yet another doomed relationship . 
who ya gonna believe ? 
despite her winning an academy award , marisa tomei has always struck me as an annoying and unwelcome screen presence , one that undermines the pleasure of watching happy accidents . 
her brassy new yawk attitude never really meshes with her desperate desire to appear " cute " to her adoring fans . 
being loud and flashing a ( disingenuous ) smile does not necessarily equal " substantial and sexy . " 
it takes more than a crack team of hair and wardrobe people to imbue her with personality . 
then there's that damned voice , which strains to be oh-so-adorable . 
look , this stuff is purely subjective . 
some people feel this way about richard gere , others cannot bear to watch robin williams' hyperactive schtick . 
for my money , it's m . tomei with a bullet . 
happy accidents is a romantic comedy filtered through twelve monkeys ( or , more appropriately , chris marker's la jetee , especially with those still framed " memory " photographs anderson employs as a stylistic device throughout ) . 
modern manhattan is filmed with an otherworldly , vaguely alien eye with a color scheme oddly reminiscent of logan's run . 
as the stranger in a strange land , d'onofrio walks slightly out-of-step , wonderfully affable but often inscrutable with his wayward expressions and bemused detachment . 
this is science fiction told mainly via the power of suggestion ( though it often falls into the sci-fi trap of having entirely too much forced exposition -- we want deeds , not words ! ) 
at least twenty minutes too long , happy accidents eventually gets around to a race-against-time scenario that puts " sam deed " to the ultimate test . 
no movie can live in ambiguity forever , but anderson seems terminally unable to provide satisfactory conclusions to his otherwise well structured recent narratives . 
 ( let's pretend the loathsome and predictable next stop wonderland never happened , shall we ? ) 
there are also some slow , repetitive stretches as ruby and sam go over the same arguments again and again over whether or not he's crazy . 
the premise is strong enough to sustain interest , but it's enough to throw a nod in the general direction of rod serling for wrapping up his ideas in half-hour time slots , commercials included .
1	1	meet joe black is your classic boy-meets-girl , boy-likes-girl , boy-gets-killed-in-horrible-accident , supernatural-entity-takes-over-boy's-body , supernatural-entity-falls-in-love-with-girl story . 
based on the 1934 film death takes a holiday , meet joe black is a well acted romantic drama which explores the meanings of life and love . 
william parrish ( anthony hopkins ) is a billionaire businessman on the brink of his 65th birthday . 
he has built a huge media empire , and raised two beautiful daughters , allison ( marcia gay harden ) and susan ( claire forlani ) . 
william has been able to negotiate his way out of many tough spots . . . but he has suddenly begun fearing his own mortality , the one situation he won't be able to talk his way out of . 
and he has good reason to fear , for death himself is stalking him . 
however , death has a deal to make . 
death has taken possession of a man who has recently died ( brad pitt ) , and wants william to be his guide in a holiday among the living . 
in return , william gets to live a few extra days . 
of course , he agrees . 
death , under the human name of " joe black " , gets to experience life as a complete innocent . 
he never before has experienced the simple pleasures of a springy matters or peanut butter . 
and he's not quite compared for the more complex pleasures when he and susan fall in love . 
but , is their affair doomed to an early demise ? 
at nearly three hours in length , meet joe black is a little bit on the leisurely side , though it never gets boringly lengthy . 
instead , the film gets a chance to develop some nicely textured characters and situations . 
you get to soak in and enjoy the atmosphere , rather than being hurriedly rushed through it . 
the romantic angle works well , though , surprisingly , the interactions between joe black and william parrish are more interesting than those with his daughter . 
this is most likely due to anthony hopkins , who once again displays his superb acting skills . 
william is a desperate man who has had a seemingly ideal life , and doesn't want to let it go . 
by contrast , claire forlani is merely the romantic interest . 
she gets to show joe the ropes of love , but is hardly as interesting a character . 
as joe black , brad pitt seems a bit stilted . 
granted , he's supposed to be out-of-place , but the overly formal technique used by pitt begins to distract from the role . 
still , he is able to hold his own , and over the course of the three hours , his character begins to grow on you . 
the main character who seems out of place here is drew ( jake weber ) , an ambitious executive in williams' company who is joe black's main rival for susan's affections . 
weber plays the character with a hammy relish reminiscent of snidley whiplash . 
this cartoonish foil an aberration in a film filled many more dimensional characters . 
the supernatural elements of the film are handled murkily , but never distractingly so . 
we never learn what is the exact nature of death , or why he's never done something like this before . 
it actually gets a bit creepy when death talks to the dying in their own voices/accents . 
 ( his initial conversations with hopkins sound shockingly like hannibal lecter . . . ) 
and the ultimate resolution to one of the film's supernatural problems seems , well , somewhat superficial . 
still , even with the film's length , it was a pleasant time at the movies , something you wouldn't necessarily expect from a film about death . . . but one which meet joe black delivers anyhow .
1	1	after sixteen years francis ford copolla has again returned to his favorite project , making the third installment in the godfather-trilogy . 
this new film has been underrated for no reason . 
it is as intellectual and majestically made as copolla's pervious films . 
it is also more psychological , pessimistic and more tragic than the first two . 
the only regret is the unconvincing performance by the newcomer sofia copolla and some " unfinished " developments of some characters . 
the film elegantly begins with nino rota's recognizable musical score , the beautiful skyscrapers of new york and michael's voice as he is writing a letter to his children : " the only wealth in this world is children . 
more than all money and power on earth , you are my treasure " . 
the year is 1979 and michael corleone has used the time since the ending of " part ii " to make his father's dream come true - making the corleone family legitimate . 
michael sold all his casinos and invests only in gambling . 
constantly haunted by the past , his only reason to live is his children . 
the family has amassed unimaginable wealth , and as the film opens michael corleone ( al pacino ) is being invested with a great honor by the church . 
later that day , at a reception , his daughter announces a corleone family gift to the church and the charities of sicily , " a check in the amount of $100 million . " 
but the corleones are about to find , as others have throughout history , that you cannot buy forgiveness . 
sure , you can do business with evil men inside the church , for all men are fallible and capable of sin . 
but god does not take payoffs . 
the plot of the movie , concocted by coppola and mario puzo in a screenplay inspired by headlines , brings the corleone family into the inner circles of corruption in the vatican . 
there is a moment in " godfather iii " where michael says : " all my life i have been trying to go up in society , where everything was legal . 
but the higher i go , the crookier it becomes . . " 
 . 
visually this film is as spectacular as the first two . 
gordon willis' rich cinematography , carmine copolla's beautiful composition and alex tavoularis' wonderful art direction could not be better . 
but copolla's first two godfather-films were more famous for their deep , intellectual plots , tree dimensional characters and incredible acting , than for their visual perfection . 
the third installment has only the plot and visuals . 
some characters could be much more developed and the acting , although good , never accomplishes to reach the same height of the first two films . 
the biggest miscasting is sofia copolla , who is so unconvincing and unemotional that she manages to ruin several scenes throughout the movie , that could have been grander and more emotional . 
the best performance comes unsurprisingly from al pacino , who should have got a nomination for best actor at the oscars . 
andy garcia is powerful as sonny's son , strong , focused and loyal . 
violence is natural to him . 
he suffers no pangs of conscience when he takes revenge on his family's behalf , and in this he is supposed to be strong in the uncomplicated way don vito corleone was . 
however both kay ( diane keaton ) and connie ( talia shire ) are useless . 
and characters like vito corleone and tom hagen are really missed . 
the good part is that michael is again reunited with old friends , that you remember from the first and second films . 
in the third film michael has become almost like his father , vito in the first film and vincenzo resembles michael when he was much younger . 
this parallel could be more interesting if vincenzo's character was more developed . 
many have pointed out that making the third film , was unnecessary . 
i disagree . 
it is a beautiful film of great importance , completing the tragic saga of the corleone family . 
the first film showed some horrible results of corleone's life . 
it showed michael making a choice ; the second showed a man damning himself for his choices and feeling the impact of changing times . 
a man desperately trying to keep his balance , focus , family and sanity , while everything is crashing all around him . 
the third film is a terrifying conclusion - a result of michael's life . 
the life he chose for himself is like quicksand - one wrong step and you are doomed . 
there is no turning back . 
and no matter how hard you try to get out of it , to free yourself , no matter how powerful and wealthy you are , you are helpless - sinking deeper and deeper till it swallows you completely . 
the beautifully directed last sequence is also the powerful climax of the film , when michael is sitting alone in his chair , left by everyone , surrounded by emptiness and memories of his friends and family members long dead . 
here he dies - alone , miserable and unforgiven
1	1	there is a striking scene early in " city of angels , " where all the angels who live unseen in our midst , gather at the beach to watch the sun rise . 
the camera moves above them , showing the endless rows of ethereal men and women , all garbed in black . 
then the camera moves in on the face of seth , an angel played by nicolas cage , and as the sun rises , he smiles and his entire face lights up . 
you see , the angels can hear music in sunrises and sunsets , but they cannot feel a human touch . 
it is an important scene for several reasons . 
first of all , it is one of many instances in the film that make angels seem thoroughly plausible . 
the film presents these fantastic beings as normal-looking people who drift amongst the inhabitants of earth , watching what goes on with little interference . 
there are none of the standard , hokey angel references used in recent films like " angels in the outfield " ( 1994 ) or " michael " ( 1996 ) . 
the angels here are stark and believable . 
this early scene on the beach is also an important scene of juxtaposition , for its shows how god's angels can enjoy aspects of the earth that human cannot , and yet they are denied so many simple human pleasures , like feeling the sand on their feet or the waves lapping at their legs , or the smell of the salt in the air . 
there is an inherent tragedy in being an angel , although there is much beauty in it as well . 
they eternally walk the earth , listening to our thoughts , touching us in our pain , and leading the dying to heaven . 
like human existence , being an angel is often confused and unsure . 
 " city of angels " is essentially a love story , between seth and a human , a beautiful but sad heart surgeon named maggie ( meg ryan ) . 
he first sees her when he is in her operating room , waiting to lead the soul of her dying patient to heaven . 
maggie is distraught , doing everything in her power to stop the man from dying on her table , and seth is moved by her efforts and , more importantly , her overwhelming sadness when the patient dies . 
angels have the limited power to soothe humans in time of misery and pain , and seth does what he can with his invisible touch , but it's not enough . 
he wants to be with her and share her pain , not just stand back at a distance . 
he learns that the only way to fulfill his desire for human love and touch is for him to " fall " and become human . 
he learns this from another fallen angel , played by dennis franz ( " n . y . p . d . 
blue " ) in a touching and humorous performance . 
sitting at a diner together , franz tells cage's character about how wonderful it is to be human - to be able to taste food , feel another person's skin , smell the air , and most importantly , have a loving wife and children . 
of course , there is pain to go along with all this , but for seth , it will be worth it . 
 " city of angels " is something of a reinterpretation of wim wender's haunting 1988 film " wings of desire . " 
wenders' film was more like a poem - it was the feeling , the emotion that truly mattered over what actually happened . 
the americanized version moves the location from divided berlin to broken los angeles , and the emphasis shifts onto the relationship between the immortal angel and the mortal human . 
and , unlike most foreign films that are re-made into hollywood fare , it doesn't suffer extensive damage . 
this may be because director brad silberling ( " casper " ) and screenwriter dana stevens ( " blink " ) wanted to make " city of angels " its own movie - inspired by " wings of desire , " but not an attempt to copy it . 
and yet , " city of angels " is not a typical hollywood movie . 
it is beautifully filmed in lush colors by cinematographer john seale ( " the english patient " ) , whose sweeping aerial shots and golden lighting make los angeles into an almost unrecognizable new world . 
seale creates many striking visuals : in addition to the beach scene , there is a wonderful sequence in a circular library where all the angels appear at banisters all around , looking down at seth as he watches maggie walk by . 
while the film travels along a charted plot , it takes time to develop its characters and situations ; it sheds light on the boundaries between what is earthly and what is heavenly , and shows just how thin those boundaries are . 
both cage and ryan give soulful , soft-spoken performances . 
ryan , who is usually so bouncy and energetic , truly embodies a sadness that can only be alleviated by a heavenly touch . 
cage projects all his desire and longing to be human in simple , heartfelt gazes , and speaks with the comforting , knowing voice that only an angel could have . 
what is most striking about " city of angels " is that stevens has added a new ending to the screenplay , which is both unexpected and challenging . 
it's not a formulaic hollywood ending , because it is both sad and uplifting at the same time . 
it doesn't give the audience what it thinks it wants at the end of a romance . 
instead , it offers something much better , something that speaks to the depths of what it means to be human and alive . 
____________________________________________ visit " charlie don't surf ! " 
an eclectic collection of film reviews by james kendrick http : //www . bigfoot . com/~jimkendrick 
|| e-mail : jimkendrick@bigfoot . com
0	0	making your first feature film ain't easy . 
assemble a decent , if not , strong cast , as writer/director robert moresco has done with one eyed king , and you're already ahead of the game . 
but rehash old plot lines , tired dialogue , and standard clich ? s , and a well-intentioned effort such as this one could jeopardize your chance at a second feature film . 
how many more movies do we need about a rough neighborhood full of lifelong friends hopelessly turned to crime or worse ? 
the enormous catalog of such movies might dissuade a filmmaker from making yet another , but here we have it . 
again . 
five irish kids in nyc's hell's kitchen make an overemotional pact over some stolen rings on an anonymous rooftop . 
with teary music . 
and slow motion . 
in the film's first scene . 
the kids grow up to be fairly worthless adults , unable or unwilling to make their way out of the heat of the kitchen . 
leading the clueless pack is william baldwin as a good-hearted guy who watches out for his buddies and is in tight with local mob head armand assante . 
i'd like to say that his character gets involved over his head in some sort of blah , blah , blah , but all we seem to get are little tastes of possible plot points . 
he's concerned about buddy jason gedrick's heroin abuse . 
he sticks up for jim breuer after he impregnates baldwin's character's sister . 
he looks into who might be pushing the most moronic-looking counterfeit cash ever made ( a genuinely funny touch ) . 
but none of this ever really amounts to anything . 
it seems that moresco's greater concern is to provide that intangible " slice of life " , that flavor of the neighborhood that everyone's been trying to evoke since scorsese's early work . 
so , we get the drunk guys , hugging and singing together at the local bar , to prove to us that they really love each other . 
 ( do people actually do this ! ? ) 
we get a lot of tough street talk -- usually mumbled for effect -- and a whole lot of the f-word , whether it sounds like it fits or not . 
we also get a handful of good actors in small roles that seem to lack purpose . 
bruno kirby , chazz palminteri , you know , guys you've seen in movies just like this one before . 
assante is intelligent casting as the man that everyone fears , and baldwin's performance is adequate , but most of the rest of the cast jump into the tough guy persona so thoroughly that it's almost funny . 
moresco , a theater guy and sometimes tv writer ( including the series falcone ) , obviously labored over this one as anyone might a first child , but the content is probably too personal . 
as a result , the movie's style is heavy-handed , in need of a considerable amount of toning down . 
nearly every time an action by the grown up gang recalls something they did as kids , moresco reminds us -- boy does he remind us . 
with slow dissolves to the earlier scene , running in slow motion , complete with dialogue from the present , just in case we don't comprehend the link to the past . 
moresco needs to either trust his audience's intelligence , or have more faith in his own presentation rather than beat us over the head with it . 
his next project should have a little more personal distance , and a lot more subtlety . 
if he actually gets that chance . 
reviewed as part of our 2001 boston film festival coverage ( feature story coming soon ) .
1	1	it is with hesitance that i call " apocalypse now " a masterpiece . 
certainly , it had the pedigree to be one of the greatest films ever made , with a director known for producing masterpieces with ease , and some of the finest actors of the 1970's . 
the plot , an adaptation of joseph conrad's " heart of darkness " , was set in vietnam , and the timing of the film was supposed to be brilliant , coming on the heels of the end of the war . 
 " apocalypse " certainly has its moments , some of which are the finest in film history . 
the plot is fairly simple . 
captain willard ( sheen ) , is a troubled soldier who came back to hanoi for a 2nd tour of duty . 
his mission is simple : take a boat up to cambodian territory , and destroy the command of renegade colonel kurtz ( brando ) " with extreme prejudice " . 
along the way , willard runs into a series of adventures , including one with lt . col . kilgore ( duvall ) , and a strange encounter with playboy bunnies . 
willard' s four person crew finally make it to kurtz' compound , where he discovers kurtz has set himself up as a god among the natives . 
willard's experiences with kurtz take up the last half-hour , with a confrontation and eventual ending . 
the movie is visually breathtaking . 
the battle scenes are exquisitely done , and the score is brilliant , setting a murky mood of darkness that is first-rate . 
the collage of disturbing images that coppola presents is at times both astonishing and sickening . 
the vast amount of detail poured into every war scene is stunning , and there are many episodes that are deeply powerful which resonate through the entire movie . 
the journey to kurtz' camp is quite a ride , with psychosis setting in on almost every character . 
the most interesting one is kilgore , the lt . col . who cares more about the surf than about the mission . 
it is at times revolting , psychotic , and incredible , and it is one hell of a movie . 
the scenes are bold , inventive , and powerful , and the acting is stunning , especially be sheen , duvall , and fishburne . 
the narration is exquisite , as is the mystery of kurtz . 
coppola sets about a hallucinatory ride through vietnam , kind of like " saving private ryan " on lsd . 
the film is jarring in its implications , and psychotic in its execution . 
the problems come when the film slows down . 
one of the major scenes in the film , where the boat arrives at the final army checkpoint before they start their search for kurtz , is a colossal mess . 
the dialogue is confusing , the lighting is atrocious , and the scene drags on for 10 terrible minutes of film . 
the true problems happen after the crew does come into the kurtz compound . 
the film slows down to a drag . 
sheen seems forever captured by a madman , played by brando is a lazy performance that is not deserving of the accolades it received . 
brando is in the film for no more than 15 minutes , but is bathed in shadows the entire time , making the last half hour of the film visually pathetic . 
the scenes are poorly done , the dialogue is muffled , and the whole mess is utterly confusing beyond all belief . 
sheen seems to adore this man , but why the viewers are never told . 
the entire journey is supposed to be a prelude for a stunning entrance of this god-like kurtz , but the scenes fall way short of expectations . 
granted , it has its moments , which are brutally horrific , but the general feeling is one of confusion . 
brando mumbles his lines in a incoherent stir , and my feeling was that this could never be a great man , this could never be a man who inspires hundreds to follow him , so why do they do it ? 
there are moments of brilliance , but the visual confusion dilutes the power of the scene . 
there are too many questions left unanswered with the character of kurtz to have a satisfying ending . 
the finest scene at the end is sheen's escape , and his entrace into the temple . 
his rise out of the water , with the smoke coming off of his slicked head , is a brilliant 30 seconds of film . 
yet , you cannot shake the feeling that there is so much more this film could have done . 
the psychotic ride is unforgettable at times , and indeed the film on the whole is very good . 
it is a stunningly flawed expression of film , for it addresses major issues , such as man's mental stamina during bouts of war . 
but one still cannot shake the feeling that this film could have so much more powerful , had the character of kurtz been more explored , and had sheen truly succumbed to the fate that the viewer thought he was destined for . 
there is too much good material in here not to be called a masterpiece , but it could have been so much more rewarding .
1	1	when i saw the trailer for this film , i laughed harder than i had in quite some time . 
while i was therefore pretty well psyched to see it , i was ever mindful that a trailer can make even the most mediocre film look good . 
i'm happy to say that there's something about mary is not one of those trailer let-downs . 
in fact , watching this film was quite a fine way to spend two hours . 
the film opens up in flashback to 1985 , at a high school in cumberland , rhode island . 
ted stroehmann ( ben stiller ) is a social reject who can't seem to get a date to the upcoming prom , until he comes to the defense of the mentally retarded warren ( w . 
earl brown ) , who's being harassed by one of the school jocks . 
it seems warren's sister is the campus queen , mary jensen ( cameron diaz ) , who is impressed with ted's willingness to stand up for her defenseless brother , despite a very real chance of getting beaten up . 
mary takes an immediate liking to ted and asks him to the prom . 
ted was just flattered that she even knew his name . 
unfortunately , prom night is ruined when ted has an accident with his zipper ( at which every man in the theater will wince ) , and is sent to the hospital . 
fast forward to the present , where ted has cleaned himself up , now writes for a magazine , but has weekly therapy sessions in order to deal with his obsession of the past 13 years : mary , whom he hasn't seen since that fateful day . 
with the help of his friend dom ( chris elliott ) , ted hires slimy private investigator pat healy ( matt dillon ) to track down his only love . 
however , when pat finds mary , he falls for her too , and soon the both of them are competing for her affections . 
there's something about mary is directed by bobby and peter farrelly , who brought us dumb and dumber and kingpin . 
not exactly intelligent comedies , they are of the guilty pleasure variety where you might not want your friends or co-workers to think you had such a great time watching them . 
with their current film , the farrelly brothers have come up with something you'll not only enjoy , but also won't mind talking about the next day at the water cooler . 
the film succeeds in employing a pretty wide range of comedic styles , from the subtle to the ridiculous , and while a few of the gags might be offensive to some ( seeming like residuals from the farrelly brothers' last two films ) they almost all work . 
i have not seen many movies in the recent past that shoot for the mark and so often hit it dead on . 
one minute you'll be laughing at something ted says , and the next you'll be howling at the sight of a dog dragging him across the floor of mary's apartment . 
one of the great things this film has going for it is ben stiller . 
he is perfectly cast in the role of ted , because he's a guy who just looks awkward in almost every situation . 
ted's a nice fellow and tries to do his best , but for some reason or another things just don't always work out . 
it's comical , but also has that kind of appeal where you really feel for the him and want him to come out on top . 
actually , i've liked stiller since he did a short which aired on saturday night live back in the mid-eighties . 
the film was like a theatrical trailer for a spoof on the tom cruise/paul newman film the color of money , entitled the hustler of money . 
in it , stiller played wince ( not vince ) who is taken under the wing of an older man ( played by john mahoney ) to become a big-time bowling hustler . 
it was parody at its finest , more of which showed up in the short-lived " the ben stiller show " on the fox network in late '92/early '93 . 
like " the critic " ( which aired on abc , then fox ) , i still mourn that show's cancellation . 
cameron diaz is absolutely enchanting for most of the film , although her character seems obsessed with perfection in the men she dates , and some of the qualities she looks for make mary look paper-thin at times . 
however , diaz pulls the role off with such panache and charm , that you can still see why she's got guys just falling over each other to be with her . 
heck , i even found her laugh to be cute , even though i thought it was annoying during an appearance she made on the tonight show last week . 
my girlfriend remarked that matt dillon doesn't change , and you know , it's really true . 
he and ralph macchio must hang out or something . 
maybe they live in dick clark's pool house . 
anyway , here's another good piece of casting , as dillon slips beautifully into the role of the guy who tries to worm his way into mary's heart . 
the supporting performances are also good . 
chris elliott has a bigger part than in the abyss ( yes , check it out next time ) , and less annoying than in cabin boy . 
lin shae , who plays mary's neighbor magda ( and also appeared as the landlady in kingpin ) , provides some good laughs , especially in scenes with her benji-like dog , which acts as the focal point for a few of the funniest moments of the film . 
lee evans , as mary's friend tucker , displays a flexibility in acting and accents which surprises and contributes to an interesting plot twist . 
the farrelly brothers and scriptwriters ed decter and john j . strauss keep the comedic pacing going so that there aren't any noticeable times where the film drags . 
the only problem i saw was their use of a couple of musicians who provide segues between several key scenes . 
they appear out of nowhere and actually sing plot-relevant information right toward the camera . 
it's a device which was amusing for about three seconds when they opened the film . 
after that it got a little annoying , and it's unfortunate that those spots interrupt what would otherwise be a smooth flow . 
fortunately , filled with sight gags , humorous lines , and solid comedic acting , there's something about mary will still have you laughing after you leave the theater .
0	0	remember back in the mid 1990s when crime and macabre movies were all the rage ? 
 " pulp fiction " and " fargo " both managed to get oscar nominations for the best picture , and not surprisingly , a slew of rip-offs followed in the years thereafter . 
that fad seems to be over but here comes christopher mcquarrie writing and directing " the way of the gun " that at first glance looks like another of those wanna-be's but upon closer inspection doesn't look like anything comprehendable . 
it's a crime story so wrapped up in its own little world it has a claustrophobic atmosphere - a film that won't allow the story much room to expand outside its handful of characters and somehow still manages to turn a simple premise into something so complex its ridiculous . 
complexity should come as no surprise to anyone who's familiar with mcquarrie , he wrote " the usual suspects , " which has become a cult favorite despite little critical acclaim . 
that film had a great story and was well directed but had such an elaborate , confusing screenplay it leaves many viewers scratching their heads after repeated viewings . 
you have to wonder if mcquarrie really had everything mapped out or if he was going for the hollywood idea that " if it's really confusing and about criminals and cops that makes it fascinating . " 
with " the way of the gun " mcquarrie seems to be capitalizing on the same idea , but this time the story is far less commercial - a shame because maybe that would have helped . 
the film tells the story of two drifters with no ambition and barely a reason to live but aren't hell-bent on death either ( played by ryan phillipie and benecio del toro ) . 
they get lucky when they hear about a scheme between a big-shot exec guy and his trophy wife who are going to have a baby through in vitro fertilization . 
they figure they can kidnap the surrogate mother ( played by juliette lewis ) and get a nice ransom . 
along the way we continually learn of the shady dealings between the exec , his wife , their hired goons and the " bag man " ( played by james caan - the only actor in the film who looks like he knows what he's doing ) . 
the exec is some kind of money launderer so he obviously can't call the authorities for help . 
his goons and the bag man are on the kidnappers' trail and each make different offers to get the mother back . 
the exec's son is a doctor who also gets pulled into the fray and wants to make sure his patient is all right . 
meanwhile each of these characters has something hidden up their collective sleeves and the double-crosses , secret love affairs and torrid pasts come as no surprise even though little of it has any relevance at all . 
mcquarrie doesn't know the meaning of the word simple . 
he seems to be more interested in showing us how clever he is than making a good movie . 
everything has to be complicated and confusing , so much so that it's to the point of surrealism . 
nothing is what it seems in this reality , it's one of those movies where you get dropped right into the middle of the criminal world and are expected to know most of the industry's rules and regulations . 
every scene with caan's character exemplifies this perfectly - the kidnappers already know who he is and even chat with him , getting into conversations about " the business " and how it works and we're hardly given a clue as to what they're talking about . 
these characters are probably supposed to be great criminal sketches but they're more like ideas ripped-off from sketches found in david mamet's trash . 
no one here really acts like a real person , and the story is even further removed from reality . 
it's like a dream without any appeal . 
take the opening scene for example ; the phillipe and del toro characters are in a parking lot across the street from a bar or a club counting their money and stuff . 
they sit on a brand-new mercedes and the car alarm goes off , the owner is waiting in line and yells at them to get away from his car but they don't move . 
the guy and his loud-mouth , potty-mouth girlfriend and about 20 other people cross the street and gang up on them . 
you'd think phillipe ? and del toro are ? going to pull out guns and scare them away but they don't , instead phillipe throws one punch and the two get beat down by a mob . 
there's a lot of things i didn't understand about this scene : first of all the owner of the mercedes isn't some yuppie or old rich snob , he's like a hippie straight out of the 60s . 
secondly , the two main characters seem to believe that they can actually take on the mob unarmed . 
lastly , it serves no purpose in the long run because later in the film the two are packing more artillery than a small country's army . 
if they were suicidal they wouldn't have gone on the kidnapping job in the first place ( and where they get all those guns is never explained either ) . 
there's a lot more i could pick apart about this film but that would be an exercise in futility . 
what it all comes down to is that nothing here is what it seems - which would be great if this movie were about pretty much any other story than what it is . 
absolutely none of the characters are likable or believable . 
and it's all coated with a thin layer of black comedy which is good for a chuckle here and there but this film is definitely not a flat-out black comedy and its use of such seems like a desperate attempt to kill screen time . 
with any film you see , whether you like it or not , you can at least understand what the appeal was to it , why someone would want to make it and why someone would want to see it . 
i can't say either for " the way of the gun , " because it has very little going for it and i can't imagine anyone intelligently defending it .
1	1	allen , star of many a brian depalma movie in the early eighties , has a brief , throwaway part towards the end of " out of sight , " as the maid of a crooked financier . 
in keeping with her past performances , allen wears little more than a green velvet victoria's secret ensemble which begs the question , did they really need a costume designer for this ? 
 " out of sight " is not likely to secure ms . allen the kind of plaudits bestowed upon pam grier , who likewise returned from out of obscurity to appear in another recent elmore leonard adaptation , " jackie brown , " but it is intriguing to see her name kicking off the " also starring " credits given her limited screen time . 
the real stars of " out of sight " are george clooney ( " batman & robin " by way of " e . r . " ) and jennifer lopez ( " selena " ) , whose winning chemistry , coupled with steven soderbergh's freeze-frame directorial technique , help the film retain the charismatic charm of leonard's original work . 
with the success of " get shorty " three years ago , filmmakers have realized that adapting an elmore leonard novel can be an easier proposition than trying to dream up a storyline from scratch . 
in " out of sight , " clooney stars as jack foley , a career criminal who specializes in unarmed robbery--he just waltzes into banks and politely makes a withdrawal , claiming that his " partner " ( just another customer it so happens ) will shoot the manager if the teller doesn't comply . 
for all of jack's nice-guy charm though , he's not very lucky . 
his latest scam lands him in florida's glades correctional facility . 
federal marshal karen sisco ( lopez ) coincidentally arrives at the prison just as jack and his buddy ( ving rhames , typically appealing ) are breaking out . 
there's a brief struggle and jack bundles himself and karen into the trunk of the getaway car . 
it's in these cramped confines , pressed intimately together , that jack and karen start falling for one another . 
the mutual attraction continues as the couple on opposite sides of the law slip in and out of one another's grasp . 
karen follows jack to detroit , where he's about to pull off another heist , this time a cache of uncut diamonds from incarcerated businessman richard ripley ( played by a toupee-sporting albert brooks , almost unrecognizable in the prison scenes ) . 
it's during this final caper-gone-awry that allen makes her scant appearance . 
clooney's range as an actor is limited , but he has undeniable charm . 
lopez , too , is easy on the eyes , but she demonstrates more depth in her portrayal of karen , a tough yet tender professional . 
she dispenses with hit men as easily as she out-maneuvers sleazy pick-up artists in a bar . 
especially cute is a sequence in which karen fantasizes about jack in a motel bathtub . 
admirably supporting clooney and lopez are don cheadle as fellow felon maurice 'snoopy' miller , steve zahn as the perennially stoned glenn michaels , and dennis farina as karen's dad , who affectionately buys her a piece . 
add a couple of uncredited cameos from " jackie brown " cast members and " out of sight " proves to be a lot of fun . 
not as hip and clever as " shorty , " perhaps , or as complex and colorful as " brown , " but loads of fun nonetheless .
0	0	phew , what a mess ! 
for his fifth collaboration with director rich- ard donner ( lethal weapon i-iii , maverick ) , mel gibson plays a motormouth , maybe mentally ill new york city cabbie , jerry , whose wild conspiracy theories are all but ignored by alice ( julia roberts , acting all serious ) , the justice department employee that he has a crush on . 
she not interested , but another person is : a cia psychiatrist ( patrick stewart ) who promptly kidnaps him . 
is one of jerry's conjectures correct ? 
 * is * the metal strip in the new $100 bill being used to track your movements ? 
is oliver stone still alive , because he cut a deal with george bush to spread * dis * information ? 
is this movie really about * any * of the crazed cabbie's theories ? 
no , no , and no . 
as it turns out , there's some other nonsense going on here , involving and revolving around jerry's background . 
 ( hint : pay attention to an early scene where jerry blacks out and flashes back , in quick succession , to images of an interrogation room , hypodermic needles , and ms . roberts herself . ) 
the * initial * premise is pretty good and is played , for a while , at a delightfully dizzying clip . 
mel is wider-open that we've ever seen him and , if his character's relationship with roberts' initially strains credibility , their combined star power is blissfully intoxicating . 
 ( the highest wattage of the summer , perhaps ? ) 
even when the plot contrivances begin to intrude , the two remain a randy dandy screen pair . 
there's a great scene in jerry's fortress , er , apartment , with alice trying to act casual as her hyperactive host tries to remember the combination to a locked coffee bean container . 
 ( which he stores in another locked con- tainer , his fridge . ) 
other hilarious moments , of which there are many , include a trio of memorable convention-breakers , where alice ditches a tail , jerry cold-cocks someone , and , later , eludes a foot pursuit , each in a uproariously unexpected fashion . 
 ( that's donner's own ladyhawke playing in the theater , btw . ) 
let's see , other pleasures include . . . 
a brilliant title sequence , a jazzy score from carter burwell , and the worth-paying-to-see sight of roberts pumping lead into one bad guy and slamming another's head into a wall . 
oh , pretty woman ! 
getting to the latter , however , requires slogging through an increasingly overburdened and ultimately unappealing story . 
the last hour of conspiracy theory devolves from tolerable to torturous to almost unwatchable . 
more stuff happens of the stupid shit variety than is worth mentioning here , except , perhaps , for a late sequence that has alice locating jerry in an abandoned wing of a mental hospital by hearing his voice carrying through the air ducts . 
and here i thought it was wabbit season . 
good god , who rewrites these movies ? 
and do they arrive in nondescript black vehicles ?
0	0	movies like six days , seven nights make me mad because talented people like harrison ford , anne heche , and ivan reitman put a lot of hard work in to a script worth about ten cents . ? 
the script was written by michael browning , and he decided that , instead of thinking up new ideas , he'd rehash a lot of cliches , omit even the slightest bit of character development , and then throw in drug-dealing pirates to provide for a few high-level action sequences and explosions . ? 
there are good scripts out there that high-profile actors can make ( see the truman show , for instance ) . ? 
six days , seven nights is simply a waste . 
let's see . 
 . 
 . 
we have to get harrison ford and anne heche alone on an island . ? 
so , how do we do that ? ? 
well , we'll make her a feisty magazine editor , and we'll make him a crusty old pilot . ? 
but wait , she has to have a fianc ? e ; that can be david schwimmer . ? 
but wait , if she has a fianc ? e , how will she and harrison ford crash on the island alone ? ? 
i know ! ? 
they'll get to their vacation spot , and then she'll get called back ! ? 
yessssss ! ? 
so , they'll crash on the island , and that will be funny for about five minutes . ? 
shucks . 
oh , i've got it ! ? 
we'll throw in a distracting subplot in which her fianc ? e has sex with a really attractive woman who acts like a bimbo , and then he can feel guilty . ? 
then , when anne heche kisses harrison ford ( they have to kiss , because otherwise nobody will want to see the movie ) , it will be a vindicated action , because her fianc ? e will already have cheated on her ! ? 
then , for no obvious reason , they'll accidentally run into pirates who try to kill them . ? 
oh , yes ! ? 
i feel so good about this story . ? 
instead of using characterization to propel the events , it will be completely random , and yet totally predictable ! ? 
imagine that . 
don't get me wrong -- six days , seven nights is not a boring picture ; ford and heche both do a great job . ? 
the sparks fly between them , and so most of browning's inane dialogue is drowned out by the actors' sheer force of talent . 
 ? almost every scene between them has energy that the performers bring to the screen , and i found myself laughing pretty hard . ? 
schwimmer is also funny , and manages to milk all of his scenes for whatever he can get . ? 
and reitman , who has made some good films , at least tries to make things exciting . ? 
even though the pirate subplot is profoundly dumb , i was prepared to be pleasantly sidetracked by the action sequences . 
it's just when i start to think about the story that my contempt for this film surfaces . ? 
the picture feels like it's been hacked to pieces -- i wouldn't be surprised if five or six inept subplots have been edited out completely . ? 
the ones that are here are as bad as they come ( i think i let out a very audible groan when they get the first glimpse of the pirate ships ) , and i'd just like to shake the producers by the shoulders and scream , " why did you pick this awful script ! ? " ? 
the film is outright stupid , but some of the elements are subtly horrifying . ? 
for instance , take the subplot in which the schwimmer character has sex with the bimbo , and then feels really guilty . ? 
this is a serious problem in real life , but six days , seven nights reduces any chance of complexity to a weak plot device : ? his actions are what makes it okay for heche to kiss ford . ? 
in a script that lacks even a glimpse of intelligent subtlety , i find it odd that such a strangely insulting device ended up in the story . 
this is summer movie season , but that doesn't mean our movies have to be dumb . ? 
1998 so far has been one of the worst years in recent memory for summer blockbusters . ? 
when i was in line for six days , seven nights , i heard the woman in front of me ask for " two tickets to that new harrison ford movie . " 
 ? why didn't she know the name of the film ? ? 
i suppose she just didn't care . 
 ? what bothers me even more is that the people who make these big-budget pictures don't realize that their films are becoming parodies of themselves . ? 
good actors should sign to good scripts , and if hollywood insists on making flicks to rake in cash , they least they could do is assume that we'd like to spend our money on a story worth more than ten cents .
0	0	this is the first film in what would become the most successful series of horror films of all time . 
a fair warning to those of you who might be inclined to watch this movie for the first appearance of everyone's favorite goalie-mask-wearing homicidal maniac . 
jason , the guy who single handedly controlled the overpopulation problem around the crystal lake area , doesn't start his quest to find the most interesting household item with which to kill someone until the sequel . 
while he does have a small role in this film , we the audience have to depend on another blood thirsty maniac to rack up the body count . 
the plot , like every other friday the 13th movie goes something like this -- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he/she/it possibly can in the space of a 90 minute movie . 
the reasons that the afore mentioned unsuspecting teenagers come into contact with the bloodthirsty killer are usually of little importance to the story . 
but for those of you out there that might actually care about such trivial matters in a movie such as a plot , here are the basics . 
a bunch of unsuspecting teens get a summer job at a long closed summer camp . 
they are days away from the arrival of the kids and they are spending their time fixing the place up and making sure it is ready for the kids . 
sadly , they start being butchered one by one by the bloodthirsty killer . 
at this point i would usually say something about the quality of acting , directing or maybe something about the high quality of the production . 
since i'm not going to do that , feel free to assume that if i did , it wouldn't be positive . 
i will say that this movie looks as if it was made for about a hundred bucks , and that includes the actors' salaries . 
if you are used to recent horror films like scream , you are in for a bit of a surprise . 
the only saving grace for friday the 13th is that it was really the first of its kind , with the killer taking real pride in their work . 
using as many methods of murder as they could . 
none of this single murder weapon stuff life that unimaginative leatherface in chainsaw massacre , or the creatively stifled imagination of halloween's michael myers who just used brute force or a really big kitchen knife . 
nope , in the friday the 13th movies , you can always count on the killer taking great pride in his work . 
one fun fact about this movie is that the cast includes a very young kevin bacon , although after this movie it is a wonder he ever worked again . 
the main reason to see friday the 13th is if you want to watch all of the series from the beginning . 
if not , stick with the later films with jason , everyone's favorite hockey fan . 
friday the 13th is the sort of movie that is fun to sit down and get a couple of scares from , just don't sit down expecting a whole lot .
0	0	this movie is written by the man who is deemed to be " one of the hottest writers in hollywood " . 
he wrote the groundbreaking screenplay for scream ( 8/10 ) , then added the successful i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) 
script to his mix , and also created the popular tv series " dawson's creek " . 
so when he asked to direct his first movie , based on his first ever script written , everyone and their grandma said " sure , go for it ! " . 
uhhm , my question is . . . did anyone bother reading this stupid script ? ? ? 
plot : ace student leigh ann watson is mistakenly caught with some cheating papers by the bitchiest teacher in the west , mrs . tingle , and set to lose her scholarship to college . 
when she and her friends visit the teacher at home in order to explain their side of the story , they end up tying her up , and slowly trying to talk some sense into the hardheaded woman . 
critique : it's not so much that this is a bad movie , than the fact that it sucks . 
this movie is chock-full of one-dimensional characters , contains no actual humor that i was able to zone in on , zero tension or thrills , plot holes the size of my big ass , lame pop tunes played to mask nothing going on in the movie , and molly ringwald , vivica a . fox and lesley anne warren tossed away in throwaway roles . 
i was primed for this film as its interesting premise had me thinking misery ( 8/10 ) and 9 to 5 , but unfortunately for williamson , he went nowhere with the bright foundation , making references to the exorcist and dr . 
zhivago , which i doubt many in his target market will appreciate . 
he also forgot about suspense , with all of his characters based on incomprehensible decisions , unbelievable motivations and simply boring us with all of their trite dialogue . 
sure , katie holmes is cute , and her co-star , marisa coughlan , did a reasonably amusing impression of the exorcist ( worth two points out of my three on ten ) , but how can we forgive the biggest one-dimensional character in any film , holmes' rival in the film , mrs . tingle's complete unprofessionalism being let go by all others around her ( are teachers allowed to behave that way nowadays ? ) and a transparent romance between holmes and some long-haired dude , hired to be the poor man's version of skeet ulrich ( who himself is a poor man's version of johnny depp ! ) . 
all in all , this movie was laughable for me , provided me with no insight into anything , demonstrated williamson's genuine lack of directorial skills alongside a juvenile script , and provided helen mirren with a great role to chew into , unfortunately forgetting to give her character any believability , humanity or capacity to comprehend . 
no hip lines , no cheap thrills , just a dull time at the movie theater . 
if you want to see a funny teenage movie , go see detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) , and thank my drunken , sorry ass in the morning . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : kevin williamson's father was a fisherman . 
kevin used his knowledge of fishing hooks and winches when creating the killer in i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) . 
he is also a huge fan of steven spielberg and coincidentally , so is dawson leery on tv's " dawson's creek " , a show kevin created . 
he was once an aspiring actor . 
in fact , he even landed a bit part on tv's " another world " . 
also , williamson has gone on record to say that an unsupportive english teacher who once told him that he would never amount to anything was the inspiration for mrs . tingle , which is also loosely based on the book " killing mr . griffin " by the writer of i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) , 
lois duncan . 
he has also come out and said that he is a gay man . 
helen mirren was born in london , england under the name ilynea lydia mironoff . 
she is married to director taylor hackford , whose works include devil's advocate ( 8/10 ) and an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) . 
this film was originally titled killing mrs . 
tingle , but was changed after the columbine high school shooting incident . 
actress marisa coughlan will star in kevin williamson next tv project called " wasteland " . 
this is actor barry watson first full feature film . 
he has played the character of " seth " on tv's " malibu shores " several times .
0	0	1990s would remembered as the era of binary movie events in hollywood - two movies dealing with the same subject , or , to be precise , same " high concept " . 
in summer 1994 , that " high concept " was " mad bomber action thriller " . 
in few weeks , " thrillride of the summer " actionfest speed was followed by rather action thriller blown away , so disappointing that most of the people these days associate the title with the 1992 thriller in which nicole eggert did few nude scenes . 
the movie begins in the prison in northern ireland , where gaerity ( tommy lee jones ) , ira terrorist with the great talent to make lethal explosive devices from almost any material , escapes from prison . 
he comes to boston , where he accidentally notices jimmy dove ( jeff bridges ) , dedicated bomb disposal expert within boston police . 
few people except gaerity know the dove's violent past , when he used to be ira terrorist before becoming sick with violence , betraying gaerity and emigrating to america where he changed the name and started using his experience for good purpose . 
gaerity holds dove personally responsible for his captivity and begins the campaign of bombing terror , directed specifically at dove's colleagues , friends and relatives . 
dove , who is just going to retire and start family , now must confront the mad bomber . 
while speed doesn't even try to bother with plot and characters , using them only as an excuse for long and spectacular action scenes , blown away tries to be more conventional and provide the action with some back story . 
and that is the main reason why it is inferior to speed . 
badly written plot and badly written characters are sometimes worse than no plot and no characters at all . 
screenplay by john bateer and john rice , barely touches the complicated issues of northern ireland , using the tragedy only as the cheap backstory for even cheaper drama . 
the plot is , of course , full of implausibilities . 
the main one is the fact that movie fails to explain how the single individual , no matter how brilliant he is , can produce thousands of deadly devices and hold entire city at bay . 
those questions , same as in the case of speed , could be forgotten while the action goes on , but the pauses between action scenes are filled with cliched and predictable situation that should provide some background to the characters . 
because of them , movie seems a little bit too long , and boring at times . 
the most annoying element of the film , however , is tommy lee jones in the role of mad bomber . 
his acting is so over-the-top that potentially fascinating villain turns into pathetic caricature of himself . 
this role is in painful contrast with the strong performance given by that same actor in fugitive . 
the film have few bright points , though . 
some of the action scenes are fine , which should be credited to director stephen hopkins ( predator ii , judgement night ) . 
and forrest whitaker really shines in minor role of dove's colleague . 
but , all in all , blown away is a film that was justifiably shadowed by its more famous , yet hardly unforgettable competitor .
0	0	>from writer and director darren stein comes jawbreaker , the poorly told tale of what can happen when an innocent birthday prank goes wrong . 
at reagan high , four girls are sitting on top of the world . 
courtney shane , played by rose mcgowan , holds the title of meanest , most disrespectful soul in the school . 
everyone hates her , but everyone envies her due to her popularity . 
courtney is the " leader " of her clique , which also includes julie , played by rebecca gayheart , liz purr , played by charlotte roldan , and marcie , played by julie benz are the other three in the group . 
it is liz's seventeenth birthday , and julie , courtney , and marcie concur that they will play a seemingly innocent prank on her , but the prank results in the death of liz . 
just like stupid teens in any teen directed film such as this one , the foursome decide to cover up the death to make it look like a murder committed by someone else . 
and also just like in other teen directed movies , one of the four don't agree with hiding it , this time that character being julie . 
and finally , just like in other teen movies , there is a witness outside the group trying to hide the truth . 
this time that character being fern mayo ( judy greer ) , who is subject to many cracks from courtney's group , as well as the entire school . 
>from here , jawbreaker turns into a predictable tale of revenge , bad morals , and at least trying to do the right thing . 
not only is the script weak , on a whole the acting is horrid thanks to a large amount of the main cast . 
judy greer is undeniably awful as her one dimensional , annoying character , as she overacts every line she has . 
also on the bad side of acting is julie benz , almost falling to the annoying factor that greer delivers . 
on the positive side of acting , rose mcgowan performs well here , but doesn't match her wickedly clever performance as " tatum " , in 1996's scream . 
mcgowan's role is annoying , but this only adds to the film . 
she is wickedly mean , and even though she a well-written character , you downright hate her . 
faring even better than mcgowan is rebecca gayheart , who is always exceptionally believable as her roles . 
when the script feeds her a one or two dimensional character , she turns it into three , always putting strong emotion and power into her roles . 
gayheart isn't given as much to do here as she was in 1998's urban legend , but you can still get a strong taste of her acting skills in jawbreaker . 
jawbreaker drifts and mianders different sub plots throughout , hardly throwing anything for the viewer to get absorbed in . 
we get way off of the topic of the jawbreaker incident , and get into things that don't have anything to do with the actual film . 
the beginning and ending are strong , it's just the middle that needs a lot of help . 
during the body of the movie , it is undeniably repetitive , never progressing towards a conclusion . 
nothing to grab the viewer's interest is around , and the same , extremely annoying song plays over and over again . 
jawbreaker tries to get off on the same time of humor used in the 1995 film clueless , but falls flat . 
the few gags that actually work die off quickly and die off with a bang . 
all in all , a horrible disappointment . 
the bottom line : the tagline reads , " even the sweetest candies are sour as death inside . " 
yes , that is too true . 
no matter how good this film may have looked , it fails to deliver .
0	0	okay , bear with me y'all , cause first off i have to get this off my chest : 
what the hell is up with that damn crab ? ? ? 
whew . okay . 
cause that same clip shown over and over again was beginning to get on my nerves towards the end , as cute as the crab maybe . 
even i know that you need more footage than * that * . 
and that wasn't the only thing getting on my nerves . 
the cutesy gimmicks , saccharine sweet score / soundtrack and the pretty young faces of sarah michelle gellar ( as amanda ) and sean patrick flannery ( as tom ) might have held some appeal during , oh , say the first 10 minutes of the movie . 
at first the movie moves along at a quick , interesting pace . 
it is speedily established that something magical is about to happen to amanda when she encounters a totally random fairy godfather type person on the street , whose aforementioned crab follows her everywhere and just * doesn't * die . 
a ridiculous concept , yes , but at this point i'm willing to accept it because i'm willing to accept that this is how amanda's life is changed , how her powers are received . 
later on , the movie can't seem to decide whether these powers come from this fairy godfather or from amanda falling in with tom . 
and this is why the clips of the crab were annoying ; they weren't just repetitive , they were out of place and unnecessary . 
the plot stumbles along at an uneven speed , sometimes dwelling too long on a particular development ( amanda suddenly becoming a great chef , her falling in love with tom , etc . ) , sometimes moving on too quickly for its own good . 
some places the plot just doesn't make sense , sometimes it's way too contrived ( the crab bit , for example ) , and sometimes too corny ( peaches emitting dry ice . 
can't beat that ) . 
all in all the plot seemed fragmented , unconnected . 
not romantic at all , and only funny in some places . 
so , okay , do the magic powers come from the crab ? 
or the fairy godfather ? 
she can * float * now too ? 
and all of a sudden , instead of just making dry ice come out of peaches , she can put her emotions into her food ? 
tom all of a sudden just accepts amanda's " witchcraft " in the end ? 
would people really dine in a restaurant that resembles life after death in tupac's video ? 
what the hell is up with that damn crab ? 
it is unfortunate , because i liked the basic premise of the movie , until it became too fantastical and tiresome . 
the film seemed to skirt around a serious theme or at least * a * theme for a while , but towards the end it resolved to show us long flashback clips and 5 minutes of people crying at their tables . 
the humor was good in some places ( nolan gets the funniest bits , including that incomprehensible , totally random thing with the dolls ) . 
gellar and flannery are qualified actors , and gellar has a particular charm , but i much prefer her playing the saucy buffy ( or even annette in the upcoming " cruel intentions " ) than this sorry excuse for a character . 
it's almost funny sometimes to see these two trying so hard to make the dialogue sound better than it is , or trying to make the relationship seem more plausible . 
the supporting character nolan was a highlight , though he reminded me a bit of kevin in " you've got mail " ( see footnotes ) . 
and , as always , typical of a chick flick / romantic comedy , there's a seemingly endless romantic soundtrack in the background , cued up at all the right places . 
this sort of got on the nerves after a while , too . 
 " simply irresistible " is not hard to understand , light , funny in some places , and generally disappointing because it can't draw the line between romance and protracted sap , between humor and tired slapstick . 
and how could i refrain from making a pun ? 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 " simply irresistible " is all too easy to resist . 
 ( first viewing , 2/6/99 ) 
 * did anyone else think this was a tad bit similar to " you've got mail " ( or " the shop around the corner " ) ? 
business rivals fall in love . 
female counterpart's business is in danger of being shut down . 
female as mother- like figure guiding her . 
the annoying , hysterical ex-girlfriends . 
 * i _really_ like sarah michelle gellar's wardrobe .
1	1	billy bob thornton , who had a sudden rise to fame with 1996's sling blade after spending years as a virtually unknown actor and writer , is becoming one of the most versatile - and most accomplished - american actors around at the moment . 
as jacob , the simple but at times very bright loser brother of bill paxton's hank , thornton gives a performance which should leave an indelible mark on all but the most hardened viewers . 
three men , hank ( paxton ) , jacob ( thornton ) and their friend lou ( brent briscoe ) stumble upon a plane wreck which , upon closer inspection , yields a rotting corpse and a bag full of money . 
jacob and lou want to pocket the cash . 
hank , the smarter - and perhaps more naive - of the three , insists on leaving the money for the authorities to find . 
eventually , they agree to keep the cash safe until the plane is found , and then split the money three ways . 
things start going wrong , though , with greed and violence weaving their ways through their plan . 
disaster is sure to strike . 
director sam raimi , of the evil dead and darkman fame , has made an excellent and thought-provoking film , worlds away from the comic horror films which made his name . 
while there are a couple of moments which might remind one of his earlier work , raimi has made an intelligent and mature departure which will hopefully be a sign of even greater films to come . 
scott b . smith's screenplay , based on his novel ( which i haven't read ) is a fine example of escalating tension . 
while it does remind one of danny boyle's shallow grave without the abundance of black humour , it keeps the drama that should really be a part of such a story on morality , or the lack thereof , found in a film with this subject matter . 
alar kivilo's cinematography reminds one of joel and ethan coen's fargo , with the bleak , snowy landscape almost becoming another character . 
danny elfman also does well with his moody , finely-written score . 
if there's a flaw in the film , it's that it goes on for just a little too long . 
just when we think that they are about to wrap things up , raimi and smith decide to let the film go on a little further . 
while this isn't really a bad thing , it did become a little frustrating at times ( this may have been due to the fact that i had consumed a large sprite beforehand ) . 
the performances are excellent , with the usually annoying paxton in fine form and bridget fonda giving a scene-stealing turn as hank's scheming wife . 
this is an excellent showcase for thornton's fine skills as an actor and a great change in direction for raimi , who could very well have a career ahead of him as an accomplished director of dramatic films . 
fingers crossed , though , that this doesn't stop him from making another evil dead sequel .
1	1	as the small boats rock slowly toward the shore at omaha beach normandy on d-day , the weary , seasick soldiers take a deep breath and open the large protective shield at the back of the boat . 
they are unaware of exactly what is going to happen . 
one man kisses the crucifix that hangs around his neck . 
as the flap falls , the battle begins . 
they are trapped like rats in a cage and proceed to be blown to pieces in the wake of enemy gunfire . 
amid the chaos of this massacre , stands a shot that , at least for me , hangs in the air like the girl in the little red coat in schindler's list . 
a soldier , clearly missing an arm , wanders around the body-strewn beach like a lost puppy . 
we are not invited to know what he is searching for until he finds it himself . 
he bends over , picks up his arm and starts to carry it , probably not bothering to ask himself ; " what now ? " 
saving private ryan is a masterfully composed film . 
the direction is out of this world , surely the type of command that can win spielberg another directing oscar . 
the cinematography , by janusz kaminsky , is also astounding . 
but be forewarned , this is the most violent and graphic film i have ever seen . 
the articles you read and the warnings you see are justified ; saving private ryan is visually as disturbing as a film can get . 
the question is , " does the story and its realism justify the excessive use ? " 
the answer from my point of view is " no " . 
braveheart was a truly gritty , and , one would imagine , realistic battle film . 
ryan is ten times worse . 
expect disembowelments , sucked in skulls , heads blown to bits , arms and legs flying across the battlefield . 
many in the theater could not bear to watch . 
and it is a shame , too , because this is otherwise by far one of the standouts this year . 
but such graphic displays may turn away even the most loyal spielberg supporters ( and academy members ) . 
saving private ryan takes us from the attack at omaha beach on d-day , 1944 , through into the film's primary mission . 
captain miller ( hanks ) assembles an 8 man crew and sets off to find a missing solider , private ryan , whose three brothers have already been killed on the battlefield . 
the government goes to great lengths to make sure that mrs . ryan doesn't recieve a fourth letter of condolences about her sons , that no person should suffer such injustice . 
miller's crew is not in favor of the mission and they begin to harbor a secret hatred for ryan , though they don't yet know him . 
they resent having to trudge out to bring home one soldier who doesn't have any more or less right to live than any of them . 
this film manages to keep up a rapid pace and , though there is a lot of set up between battles , the story continues full speed to the end . 
the pacing and dramatism of the extremely well choreographed battle scenes is really in a league of it's own . 
spielberg , though not a student of the " quick cut " school of filmmaking , takes a stab at it here , and does it better than michael bay or any of his mtv counterparts could ever hope to do it . 
bay should pay close attention , take copious notes . 
if you want to jump cut every two seconds , do it the way spielberg does it in ryan . 
in the end , the extremity of the gory violence is not justified by the " importance " of the film . 
schindler's list taught many people the truth about the holocaust . 
it opened eyes , sparked debate and study . 
though the battle scenes in ryan have never been portrayed as realistically before , they don't amount to anything as serious or thought provoking as the schindler's list . 
overall , this is just the truest depiction of the old adage , " war is hell . " 
but braveheart-dosage would have fit this movie much more appropriately , and would have made the difference between me getting up the nerve to see it again some day and realizing that this is something i doubt i could endure again . 
masterful work marred only by excessive gore .
1	1	ralph fiennes is carving out a nice niche for himself in the genre of period piece romances . 
for his followup to the academy-beloved the english patient , he has once again turned to a love story , this time directed by accomplished australian film maker gillian armstrong ( little women ) . 
despite some obvious overplotting , oscar and lucinda is a mostly effective and often affecting motion picture that touches our hearts while daring our minds to balk at its implausible coincidences . 
the film opens in the mid-1800s , with parallel storylines in new south wales , australia and devon , england . 
as the helpful narrative voice of geoffrey rush informs us , lucinda leplastrier ( cate blanchett ) is a headstrong young woman being raised in the australian outback . 
meanwhile , half the world away , oscar hopkins ( fiennes ) has broken with his puritanical father over religious issues , and has gone away to school to study to be an anglican priest . 
lucinda is fascinated with glass ; oscar is obsessed with theology . 
lucinda is rich ; oscar is poor . 
lucinda is forward and self-assured ; oscar is timid and uncertain of himself . 
yet one characteristic unites these two diverse individuals -- the compulsion to gamble , whether it's on horses , dogs , cards , or the flip of a coin . 
and fate has decreed that they will one day meet . 
that day doesn't occur until 45 minutes into the film , when oscar boards a ship bound for sidney , australia , where he hopes to change his life and minister to anyone in need of his help . 
another of the passengers is lucinda , who is returning from england where she was shopping for machinery to equip her newly-acquired glassworks factory . 
at first , their relationship is that of a reverend and a confessor , but it doesn't take long for both of them to recognize a kindred spirit in the other . 
a friendship is born , and , once they reach australia , it develops into something more potent . 
but oscar is uncertain of lucinda's affection , and feels he must do something to prove himself worthy of her . 
oscar and lucinda isn't beyond a little manipulation to get the desired emotional response , and there are times when the storyline curves in preposterous directions . 
on more than one occasion , it's apparent that events are occurring specifically to funnel the characters into a position where there is only one possible route . 
coincidence is a crucial plot device ; without it , this movie can't go anywhere . 
the voiceover narration ( never one of my favorite techniques ) is too verbose and breaks into the story at undesirable moments . 
 ( however , without it , the final twist , which i will not reveal , would not be as poignant . ) 
yet , despite these quibbles , i enjoyed oscar and lucinda . 
storyline faults pale in the light of two such finely-realized characters . 
thematically , the film is also strong . 
the unifying motif -- that everything in life is a gamble -- is successfully delineated . 
oscar and lucinda don't just wager their money , they bet their hearts , minds , and souls . 
a card game they engage in shortly after they first meet could easily be considered a form of emotional " strip poker " where defenses are peeled away to reveal their shared , secret passion . 
oscar does not see gambling as a vice . 
in fact , he believes that the greatest chance one takes in life is betting one's immortal soul on the truth of a religious faith . 
ralph fiennes , who normally plays strong , confident men , is very much at home as the fumbling , insecure oscar . 
the actor brings a variety of nervous tics to the part , all of which subtly add to a vague sense of discomfort whenever oscar is on-screen . 
as good as fiennes is , however , he is eclipsed by cate blanchett . 
the actress , who appeared earlier this year as one of the leads in bruce beresford's paradise road , is mesmerizing as lucinda . 
she gives this liberated woman her flash , and feeds the chemistry between the two lead characters so that it sparkles rather than fizzles . 
effective support is provided by ciaran hinds ( the male lead in jane austen's persuasion ) as lucinda's close friend , tom wilkinson ( the full monty ) as oscar's mentor , and clive russell as a self-serving adventurer . 
there's a real magic in the way armstrong develops the story , keeping things moving in unexpected directions without lingering too long on any one moment or sequence . 
 ( in fact , i wish she had devoted a little more time to the luminous middle act , which has oscar and lucinda together . ) 
with the skill of a consummate storyteller , she weaves romance , friendship , passion , humor , and tragedy together into a complete package . 
the characters , with all of their human foibles and neuroses , are wonderfully developed by fiennes and blanchett . 
so who cares if the storyline is a little ripe and unwieldy ? 
oscar and lucinda still offers abundant pleasures to reward the viewer .
0	0	it is with some sad irony that i screened fright night part 2 on the day that one of it's stars , roddy mcdowall passed away at the age of 70 . 
mcdowall was one of the most talented and prolific actors in hollywood , having a career that spanned over 60 years and appearing in more than 100 films . 
fright night part 2 probably will not be counted among his more memorable roles . 
this is really sad considering how good the first fright night film was . 
william ragsdale and roddy mcdowall both reprised their roles as the somewhat reluctant vampire killers who seem to be the only ones that realize that vampires walk among us . 
 ( at least in the movies anyway . ) 
it has been several years since charlie brewster ( ragsdale ) and b-movie actor turned late night horror film host , peter vincent ( mcdowall ) came face to face with a real live vampire who just happened to be charlie's next door neighbor . 
charlie and peter won that battle , but apparently even vampires have relatives who get pissed if you kill members of their family . 
apparently charlie's former bloodsucking next door neighbor had a sister who was none too pleased to find out that some kid and an aging actor staked her sibling . 
so she decides to exact a little bit of revenge . 
this ends up forcing charlie and peter to battle the forces of darkness yet again . 
one of the things that made fright night such a success was chris sarandon who played charlie's stylish next door neighbor with a taste for blood . 
fright night part 2 tries to duplicate that modern style but it falls sort . 
while they are stylish , the vamps in this film just don't have the personality of the undead in the first film . 
with the exception of a werewolf who adds some much needed comic relief to a few of the scenes . 
one bright spot , speaking from a strictly sexist point of view , is traci lin , who plays charlie's very skeptical girlfriend . 
it's really a shame that her career hasn't been better since she made this film . 
ragsdale does a fair job in this film , but doesn't give nearly the performance that he did in the original . 
roddy mcdowall makes the most with what he is given , which unfortunately isn't much which is a shame because his character was a lot of fun in the original movie . 
i guess i would have to say that the first film was a superior product in every way . 
the original always left you feeling danger was lurking right around the corner , part 2 had more of the feel of a music video . 
never a good thing for a horror film . 
another minus for part 2 was the traditional scenes that leave the audience on the edge of their seats waiting for something to jump out of a shadow where very rare . 
for that matter , they were almost nonexistent . 
if i was going to watch a horror film , this would be far from my first choice . 
the first fright night , on the other hand , would be right up near the top of my list . 
if i was in the mood for a roddy mcdowall film i'd probably head to the science fiction section of my local video store and rent planet of the apes . 
either way fright night part 2 would most likely not enter into the equation .
1	1	wow ! what a movie . 
it's everything a movie can be : funny , dramatic , interesting , weird , funny , weird and strikingly original . 
yep that pretty much describes this movie . 
it starts out like a regular movie and ends up being one of the weirdest , funniest most original movies i have ever seen . 
it boggles the mind and some have to wonder why we cannot get movies like this more often . 
besides being one of the best films of the year , being john malkovich may as well be one of the best movies ever . 
period . 
then again there are so many good movies , that one cannot pick an all time favorite . 
john cusack plays a puppeteer craig schwartz a man out of a job , in search of a job . 
his wife lotte schwartz who is played by a completely un-noticeable cameron diaz who looks like something off the streets is an animal lover and has about every kind of animal you could think of . 
craig finds a job as a file at the 7 ? floor of a business building . . . you 
have to pry open the elevator doors open before it reaches floor eight , the 7 ? floor is just a floor between 7 and 8 . 
he is hired by his 105 year old boss ( orsen bean ) to be a filer . 
in his office , he discovers a little door , to which was boarded up and hidden . 
to his curiosity he opens it and starts to crawl toward it , he then gets sucked to the end and ends up in john malkovich's mind . 
fifteen minutes later he is shot out onto the side of the new jersey turnpike . 
he returns to tell his co-worker maxine ( catherine keener ) that he has found a portal that will lead him into john malkovich's mind , she doesn't believe him but after she sees it it changes her mind . 
lotte also finds out about the portal and discovers that being someone else is good after all . 
john malkovich of course has no idea what is going on , and by the end of this bizarre film there are so many twists and turns , that we don't know what really happened . 
john cusack is outstanding and utterly believeable in a role only he himself could play . 
he fits the role perfectly and to me was brilliantly cast . 
cameron diaz is outstanding and utterly one of the world's most prettiest women , is made up here unnoticeable and very unattractive . 
she however gives a very comic performance and this could easily be her best role to date . 
catherine keener is very funny and sexy as maxine and of course the best thing of the movie is the magic himself john malkovich who is very brilliant and this movie plays big time homage ? to the master himself . 
the whole group combined gives us a wonderfully funny movie that is also smart and clever . 
spike jonze ( three kings ) makes his fabulous directing debut , and did a fantastic job of directing this new classic film . 
he lets the viewer go on the trip as well as let the viewer know they are watching a movie . 
by the time the ending rolled around my head was spinning from disbelief of how good this film was . 
the screenplay written by charlie kaufman was hilarious and often thought-provoking . 
the film also had a soft side to it and even though the ending is very surprising it is also a little sad and heart-warming . 
the whole movie was fantastic and had me rolling in the isles . 
from cameron diaz's appearence to john malkovich's explorations i laughed very hard , and it may as well be as funny as as good as it gets ( the funniest ! ) . 
there isn't a slow point in the movie , or an overused idea . 
there are no cliches except for the fact that this is the most original , inventie , witty , and smart movie i've seen in a long time . 
i found myself amazed by everything : the direction , acting , writing and the whole idea of the movie . 
by the end i had to wonder why hollywood doesn't want to make movies like this anymore . 
or why they don't . 
all filmmakers watch this movie and get some ideas of movies to come out . 
this was a surprise hit as was american beauty . 
'being john malkovich' is in the top 5 movies of the year , and in the top 10 best films ever made . 
it has something that no other movies playing now has . 
in fact it may as well be the best movie out right now . 
i highly recommend 'being john malkovich' and have no doubts you will be disappointed .
1	1	note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers . 
be forewarned . 
the teaser trailers for my best friend's wedding scarsely gave reason for hope - it looked like the sort of goofy , light-hearted comedy than might put julia roberts back in the limelight , but little more ; i'd frankly rarely seen a trailer place such an emphasis on people falling over for laughs so often . 
it was then to both my surprise and my delight to find that my best friend's wedding was such a success - a strong , bouyant romantic-comedy with some decidedly unconventionally quirky comic aspects , featuring a triumphant performance from ms . roberts . 
the heroine of my best friend's wedding is julianne potter ( julia roberts ) , a successful new york restaurant critic , and we open the film with a whimsical revelation to her editor george downes ( rupert everett ) that years ago , she had made a pact with her dear best friend and ex-lover michael o'neal ( dermot mulroney ) , a sports writer , that if they both hadn't married by the time they reached 28 , they had promised to marry each other . 
both julianne and michael are both single , of course , and when george inquires about michael's age , julianne realizes that he's mere weeks away from his 28th birthday , and is quite distressed when she receives a phone call from michael later that day . 
however , she finds herself even more distraught when michael's call is in regards to his impending marriage to heiress kimmy wallace ( cameron diaz ) , and when he asks julianne to fly down to chicago for the wedding , julianne suddenly realizes that she loves michael , and resolves to break up the wedding and steal the groom by any means necessary . 
the setup for my best friend's wedding , then , is a fairly conventional one , and in many ways the film's storyline is formulaic - but only to a certain extent : the film was directed by p . j . hogan , whose first feature , muriel's wedding , had quite an offbeat tone for a traditional uplifting ugly-duckling story , and the same holds true for my best friend's wedding , which confidently combines traditional romantic-comedy elements with a really eccentric sense of humour . 
the film is innundated with sly mischievousness which seems clearly the influence of mr . hogan . 
for example , there's a heartfelt , emotional exchange between julianne and michael late in the film - with a trio of teenagers , inhaling helium and sounding every bit like alvin and the chipmunks , harmonizing in the background . 
my best friend's wedding opens with an inspired opening credit sequence which sets the tone for the film , and there are scenes where actors spontaneously burst into song to good comic effect - it could almost be argued that this film is nearly as much of a musical as woody allen's everyone says i love you ; i'd even assert it's a more successful one . 
my best friend's wedding keeps breaking conventionality with its characters as well . 
in a typical romantic-comedy , kimmy would be portrayed as a snooty , conniving ice queen , and the audience would be cheering for julianne to rescue michael from her grasps ; this film is smarter than that - here , kimmy is sweet , sincere , and innocent ; julianne even admits at one point that had she not resolved to utterly destroy kimmy's life , she'd actually like her too . 
the george character is almost a staple of recent film - the homosexual male friend of the heroine who acts as a confidant and provides the guiding voice of reason - but in my best friend's wedding , he gets to have a playful , mischievous and charming personality . 
throughout the film , the formulaisms one often sees is romantic-comedy are given little twists , and the result is a film which is compelling all the way to its somewhat unorthodox conclusion . 
there is a lot of smart writing in the well-paced screenplay by ronald bass ; we're given four interesting , vivid , and likeable characters , with some good dialogue and some genuinely charming and touching moments . 
my best friend's wedding marks a strong career rebound for julia roberts , who turns in a top-notch , confident and reassured performance as julianne . 
this isn't the sort of role one usually associates with ms . roberts - the julianne character's neurotic , fumbling characteristics are more in line with a meg ryan role - but ms . roberts works wonderfully in the film and demonstrates her aptitude at comedy here , remaining compelling and empathetic to the audience , if not entirely sympathetic , even when her deeds done to destroy the wedding plans of her best friend are less than honourable . 
even better than ms . roberts though is cameron diaz , who turns in a shining performance in my best friend's weddding . 
with a smile which lights up the screen , she effectively conveys kimmy's insecurity and utter sweetness in an endearing manner , and never hits a false note in the film . 
she even sings - i won't soon forget her charming serenade of " i just don't know what to do with myself " . 
rupert everett is given a very juicy role as george , and he makes the most of it with a hilarious turn which makes his character perhaps the most vivid and most memorable in the film . 
his george is a bit of a devilish rogue , entirely affable , and mr . everett's performance is a delight to watch ; he's clearly having fun , and his joy is infectuous . 
dermot mulroney is adequate in a thankless role - unlike the other characters in the film , he's not given a lot to do , but there is a genuine onscreen chemistry between ms . roberts and mr . mulroney , and consequently the longstanding friendship between his michael character and the julianne character always seemed completely authentic . 
when julia roberts' lustre began to fade , and she was usurped from her title as " america's sweetheart " by sandra bullock , i thought it was a canny career move on her part to take supporting roles in prestige projects like michael collins and everyone says i love you to raise her profile . 
while that didn't quite work out , it's near-certain that her successful return to the genre which made her a big star back in 1990 , the romantic-comedy , will once again raise her ante in the hollywood game . 
my best friend's wedding marks a return to form for ms . roberts , and cements p . j . hogan's reputation as a skilled director of comedy .
1	1	before you read my review , you gotta know that i love woody allen . 
this is a very important note because allen's films are generally an acquired taste and definitely not for everyone . 
i know folks who believe him to be a complete genius , while others see him as a dirty ol' schnook who keeps making the same movie over and over again . 
i love most of his films , but will admit to having been quite disappointed by his recent crop during the 90s . 
in fact , why he felt the need to make 10 movies in those 10 years is beyond me ! 
if you look at the quality of those films , you'll hear what i'm saying . 
the only two films of his that i really liked during that time were bullets over broadway and husbands and wives . 
in fact , i secretly hoped that he would take some " time off " at the turn of the millennium , just to re-energize or something , but it doesn't appear as though he has any intention of doing that . 
so here i am again , reviewing yet another woody allen movie and hoping that it brings back the woody from the days of old . 
plot : the year is 1940 and woody allen is a top-notch insurance investigator . 
his methods are very old-fashioned and apparently out of date . 
a new employee ( hunt ) has just been hired to streamline the operations for greater efficiency . 
the two do not like each other . 
one night , they are both put under a hypnotic trance by a magician , and unbeknownst to them , placed under his control . 
soon thereafter , jewels are stolen , words of love are exchanged and everyone is looking for an answer . 
critique : a wonderful recreation of the 1940s style movies , with the fast-talking witty banter between co-workers , a catchy jazz score moving things along , film noirish elements such as the veronica lake-type sexpot , one-liners galore and a fluffy , if inconsequential plotline . 
on the downside , the film actually starts off pretty slowly , with the first hour tossing only a few guffaws out there , but never really generating any kind of steady flow or energy . 
the sets , on the other hand , were amazing , the production design and costumes were perfect , and the casting ideal , so i kept hoping that the film would pick up and not turn into yet another mediocre outing for the man . 
but it wasn't not long before i was fully engaged by the characters , entertained by the many zingers delivered back-and-forth between allen and hunt , and actually interested in the resolution of the flick . 
i also appreciated how allen played the fine line between homage to the films of old , parody and actual reinvention ( note theron's entire female persona that is drenched in film noir- very cool ) . 
of course , films like this ( with little or no real tension in the plot ) need solid actors to keep you interested in the quick-fire dialogue , and once again , allen does a great job in playing his character , who for once , isn't his typical new york jewish neurotic cheating insecure husband dude . 
he actually plays a " macho " guy here and handles it pretty well , especially the scenes in which he's hypnotized . 
but the bigger surprise for me in this film was helen hunt , an actress who i was openly " sick of seeing " in movies late last year ( sorry babe , you were just in too many at the same time ! ) . 
anyway , she's really great in this film as the headstrong woman looking to a new era of equality amongst men , and doesn't miss a beat of allen's fast-paced dialogue . 
i didn't care much for her running joke about him " dying " whenever he left a room , but overall she was really good and i especially liked the way that her sweaters clung to her breasts as they did . . . yum , 
yum ! 
harumph , but i digress . 
so let's recap . 
a great looking picture with a nice jazzy score , some funny one-liners , especially in the second half , a decent plotline , although you shouldn't expect a real mystery or anything , and some solid acting all around . 
i can't say that this is even remotely close to any of allen's best work , but i certainly believe it to be a step in the right direction , especially after the dinky decade of films that he just went through . 
it's probably better geared towards allen fans more than anyone else , but i would still recommend this film to anyone looking for a cute , " old-school " kind of vibe , with chemistry between the leads , zippy dialogue and a satisfying conclusion . 
little known facts about this film and its stars : annie hall ( 10/10 ) - celebrity ( 5/10 ) - everyone says i love you ( 5/10 ) - husbands and wives ( 9/10 ) - mighty aphrodite ( 5/10 ) - small time crooks ( 7/10 ) - when harry met sally ( 10/10 ) - you've got mail ( 4/10 )
1	1	when i was asked to see this movie with a friend , my initial reaction was ? not hugh grant ! ' 
i was perhaps wrong to be so harsh , but after his insidious flirtation with a street hooker , i just could not picture him in any romantic lead . 
what makes this movie a wonderful experience is not the fact it stars hugh , but because it stars julia and carries with it a brilliantly written script . 
this writer richard curtis , whose exceptional first work ? four weddings and funeral' shows us that he is a master in the domain of the romantic comedy , with splashes of drama thrown in between . 
hugh and his hair , is almost identical to the character that made him famous in ? four weddings' . 
he plays an ordinary guy who is down and out on his luck . 
unfortunately , he is type cast in this role , but fortunately it works well for him in this movie . 
if only he would dither a little less . 
julia knows this role well . 
the glamorous movie star who is searching for true love . 
there are moments in this movie , that you almost weep for her pain felt loneliness . 
how sad it must be to be so wealthy and beautiful , but to have no one to share it with . 
the writer deals with difficult issues of love and social class on various levels . 
how differences in social standing can make it almost impossible for love to grow in such a harsh environment . 
how the media can be as cruel as it can be attentive , and how fulfilment in life and love can be found in forgiveness and sacrifice .
1	1	what i look for in a movie is not necessarily perfection . 
sometimes a movie has such strong ideas that despite whatever flaws it may have , i will prefer it to a better-made film that is not as thought-provoking . 
the thin red line is flawed but it provokes . 
terence malick returns to filmmaking 20 years after days of heaven and produces this meditative look at war . 
unlike this year's saving private ryan , which dwells on war as a necessary evil and explores the moral ambiguities thereof , the thin red line simply says war is waste . 
while that might seem obvious to some , only after experiencing the film do you realize how profound a waste it is . 
saving private ryan has an underlying and practical acceptance that war will occur and it has a great cost ; the thin red line says idealistically avoid this at all costs . 
one message is not necessarily more correct than the other . 
it just depends on one's point of view . 
in malick's film , war is set in a tropical paradise , and john toll's cinematography is beyond lush . 
the setting poses the question , why are we fighting in the face of such beauty ? 
in saving private ryan , the capture of a german soldier presents the moral quandary of whether to let him go . 
in the thin red line , the japanese present the moral quandary of war in the first place . 
they are just like the americans -- frightened and angry , grieving and praying . 
all that separates them is war . 
the flaw in the thin red line comes in the voice-overs . 
unbelievable as coming from the characters and sometimes pretentious , sometimes corny , the voice-overs tell us what the images before us already do and are completely unnecessary . 
dispensing with them , malick could have achieved a tarkovskian grandeur . 
instead , he gets distracting self-consciousness . 
aside from that , malick's direction is stunning . 
the tracking shots across windswept hills and around transports speeding toward shore are extraordinary . 
sean penn , elias koteas , and nick nolte give the best performances . 
penn is subtle as a sergeant trying to hide his humanism , koteas is genuine as a compassionate captain , and nolte startling as a colonel whose blood vessels are about to burst if he cannot win his battle . 
john travolta and george clooney are the worst in cameo roles . 
ultimately however , the thin red line's interest is not in the characters and it is not in drama . 
it has been frequently criticized for its lack of dramatic structure , but malick clearly has different things on his mind . 
has no one ever thought that getting dramatic entertainment from war is exploitative ? 
what malick is working with is theme , and in that , the thin red line is most provoking .
1	1	eddie murphy has had his share of ups and downs during his career . 
known for his notorious late 80's slump , murphy has still managed to bounce back with a handful of hits in the past few years . 
with the exception of the dreadful holy man , he appears to be on pace for a full-fledged comeback . 
life was a great move on the part of murphy and co-star martin lawrence , because it's a great showcase for both actors that never resorts to slap-sticky drivel . 
director ted demme is smart enough to realize that the two comedians can generate enough genuine laughs on their own , and doesn't insert a distracting plot to back them up . 
life is , in a sense , one great balancing act with murphy on one end and lawrence on the other . 
amazingly , the scale never tips in either's favor due to the marvelous chemistry and wonderful contrast that each actor allows the other . 
as the movie opens , we're introduced to ray gibson ( eddie murphy ) , a two-timing pickpocket who schmoozes his way into a club . 
there he meets a successful businessman named claude banks ( martin lawrence ) . 
somehow , after multiple contrivances , the mismatched pair find themselves on their way to mississippi on a moonshine run . 
when all is said and done , ray and claude have been framed for a murder that was actually committed by the town sheriff . 
hence the setting of life : mississippi state prison , where the main characters come to realize their unlikely friendship is important , and become set on finding an fool-proof escape plan . 
the film takes us from the 30's all the way to the 90's , presenting a difficult task in showing how the aging process affects ray and claude . 
luckily , rick baker handles the makeup effects of the two actors in a fantastic , academy award caliber manner . 
not only do we believe the characters look as if they're 90 years old , but they sound like it , too . 
murphy and lawrence are completely convincing in the lead roles , even as crotchety old cons bickering over a game of cards . 
this is just one of the pleasant surprises that the film has tucked up it's sleeve . 
while the ads are marketing life as a straight arrow comedy , there is a hefty amount of dramatic material hidden at it's core . 
but the comedic aspects work wonderfully , wisely drawing strength from the talents of the two stars . 
the movie is more of a comedy than it is a drama , but in both senses , it's an overwhelming delight . 
i could say a few bad things about the movie , but i don't want to . 
it's such a nice surprise , such a great vehicle for eddie murphy and martin lawrence , that it warrants a huge smile as the credits begin to roll .
0	1	in french , the phrase " film noir " literally means " black film . " 
webster defines it as " a type of crime film featuring cynical malevolent characters in a sleazy setting and an ominous atmosphere that is conveyed by shadowy photography and foreboding background music . " 
classic film noir , including such memorable fare as " the big sleep , " the original " cape fear , " and orson welles' striking " a touch of evil , " employed black and white photography to emphasize the long shadows associated with the genre . 
color came into play with neo-noir films like " chinatown " and " blade runner . " 
 " l . a . confidential , " easily the best film of 1997 , is a wonderful piece of contemporary neo-noir filmmaking . 
for a textbook example of how to take all the elements of neo-noir and create an absolute mess , there's " palmetto . " 
based on " just another sucker , " a short story written by british author rene raymond under the pseudonym james hadley chase , " palmetto " shows what happens when a filmmaker puts style ahead of substance . 
director volker schlondorff ( " tin drum , " the handmaid's tale " ) stated " we weren't even sure for a long time if it was going to be a thriller or a comedy . " 
it shows . 
 " palmetto " is too preposterous too be taken seriously as a thriller and too ponderous to work as a comedy . 
the story begins when journalist harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is released from prison . 
someone turned state's witness and revealed that harry was framed , a " reward " for blowing the lid on corruption in the small florida town of palmetto . 
bitter and broke , harry plans to hitchhike to miami and start his life over , but ex-girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) appears to return him to palmetto . 
while hanging out at a bar , he notices that a beautiful woman has left her purse in a phone booth . 
harry pockets her cash , only to have the woman reappear and catch him with her money in his pocket . 
no problem , though . 
the radiant blonde is rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue , ) the young wife of a very rich older man with heart problems , and she has a proposition for harry . 
rhea needs " a threatening voice and someone to collect the ransom " for the staged kidnapping of her teenage stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny . ) 
the girls want to bilk a half-million dollar " ransom " from the old man and will happily give harry $50 , 000 for helping with the scam . 
things go wrong , of course . 
odette is found dead , leaving harry frantically trying to dispose of the corpse and cover his tracks . 
in an ironic twist , harry is asked to work for the local d . a . 's 
office . 
they need a press liaison to field questions about odette's kidnapping and feel that harry is the perfect man for the job . 
not a bad set-up for a noir film , if only schlondorff knew how to handle the material , but he never settles on a consistent tone . 
the actors don't know what to do with their characters either , muddling the proceedings even further . 
as if that wasn't enough , the story suffers from major problems in logic . 
woody harrelson is a talented actor with an admirable willingness to take on risky parts , but he's lost here . 
presented as a crusading journalist who was horribly wronged , it makes no sense that harry would be stupid and dishonest enough to get caught up in this scheme . 
harrelson clearly doesn't know what to do with harry's character , so he spends most of the film glowering , sweating and generally acting miserable . 
meanwhile , elisabeth shue gives a goofy performance , behaving like a vamp on nitrous oxide . 
as the stepdaughter , chloe sevigny lays on so many slurpy quirks that she comes off like juliette lewis jr . despite a number of steamy scenes , there's no chemistry between harrelson and the women . 
to make matters worse , schlondorff badly dubs in dialogue while the character's lips are running over each others bodies . 
two particularly bad scenes highlight the film's problems . 
while driving with a body in his trunk , harry has a minor car wreck and a cop shows up . 
the officer wants to help change harry's flat tire and asks him to open the trunk . 
harry's pathetic attempts to keep the trunk closed might have worked if played as comedy , but under schlondorff's grim direction , the scene is just embarrassing . 
the film's nadir comes when a bad guy prepares to kill harry and nina . 
we're supposed to be horrified watching our hero dangling over a bathtub filled with acid , but by this point the film has foundered so badly that the scene is merely reminiscent of when jessica and roger rabbit were suspended over a vat of dip . 
had " palmetto " been played with tongue firmly in cheek , it might have been an entertaining shaggy dog story . 
but under the harsh direction of schlondorff , the film is just a sluggish paint-by-numbers exercise in neo- noir cluelessness . 
avoid this nonsense and go see " l . a . confidential " instead .
0	0	talk about beating a dead horse ! 
when home alone was released in 1990 , it was a breath of fresh air , and the final box office tally indicated how much audiences appreciated a genuinely-funny family film . 
the unexpectedly high gross guaranteed a sequel , so , two years later , we were subjected to home alone 2 , which might as well have been called clone alone for all of the originality it exhibited . 
for john hughes , two home alone movies weren't enough ? he began recycling the same kinds of villains and situations in almost every movie he was involved with , including a pathetic box office bomb called baby's day out , last year's live-action 101 dalmatians , and this year's flubber . 
now , inexplicably , hughes has exhumed not only these worn-out plot elements , but the " home alone " name as well . 
the result ? 1997's worst sequel ( edging out speed 2 and batman and robin ) , home alone 3 . 
by changing the characters , hughes ( who wrote and co-produced the film ) , along with his co-conspirator , director raja gosnell , has attempted to inject new life into a series that is way past the point of cardiac arrest . 
the new kid , alex pruitt , is played by alex d . linz ( one fine day ) , and the only thing he has going for him is terminal cuteness . 
he's not half as interesting as macaulay culkin once was . 
the villains , pale copies of joe pesci and daniel stern , are even less engaging than the pair of idiots in flubber . 
in home alone 3 , there are four of them ( olek krupa , david thornton , lenny von dohlen , and rya kihlstedt ) , but all that means is an opportunity for twice as many pratfalls . 
this time , the kid isn't left home alone because his parents have gone on a trip . 
instead , he has developed a bad case of chicken pox , so he can't go to school . 
his dad ( kevin kilner ) is away on business and his mom ( haviland morris ) has to run errands , so , for the most part , he's all by himself during the day . 
through a series of coincidences too irritating to relate , a top secret u . s . air force integrated circuit comes into his possession . 
it's wanted by a gang of four international crooks who intend to break into alex's home to retrieve it . 
the eight- year old , who is wise beyond his years , booby traps the house with all sorts of rube goldberg-type devices designed to humiliate and incapacitate the villains . 
the movie's climax takes place during a raging snowstorm ? only none of the falling flakes looks remotely believable . 
previously , the most counterfeit-looking snow effects i can remember were in star trek iii . 
these are far worse . 
in fact , the production values are so shoddy that there are some scenes in the midst of this near-blizzard when a shining sun can be seen . 
if it's a wonderful life could generate real- looking snow back in the 1940s , why can't home alone 3 , which has a significantly larger budget and '90s technology at its disposal ? 
there has been an ongoing debate regarding the appropriateness of live-action cartoon violence for young children . 
home alone 3 will add fuel to the fire . 
it's one thing to see wyle e . coyote flattened by a 10 ton acme weight , but quite another to watch a running lawn mower fall on lenny von dohlen . 
adults and even older children will recognize that this is obviously fake and intended to be humorous , but what about five and six-year olds ? 
the level of violence in home alone 3 is extreme ? many of alex's schemes are nasty enough to kill . 
but , because this is a " family film , " no one dies , despite being electrocuted , falling thirty feet , and getting smacked on the head by a barbell . 
not only is home alone 3 unnecessary , but it's offensive . 
it's an exercise in tediousness , and there isn't a genuine laugh to be found from the beginning to the end ( unless , by some strange quirk of fate , you have missed every 1990s movie associated with john hughes , and thus haven't seen this stuff before ) . 
i can't imagine anyone with a reasonable attention span being more than momentarily distracted by this pointless adventure . 
maybe that's why the only ones laughing at the screening i attended were still in their thumb-sucking years .
0	1	i can see a decent sports movie struggling to break free of oliver stone's `any given sunday' . 
it's an entertaining movie that offers both insight and excitement into the rock-em , sock-em profession of pro football . 
unfortunately , the director seems to have only one priority on his mind : sprucing up the film with an assortment of fancy camera maneuvers . 
in altering each frame with quick-flash photography and dizzying , in-your-face editing , stone appears to have completely ignored the matter of plausible character development and football politics . 
we see glimpses of greatness , but `any given sunday' has its agenda all tangled in technical gobbledy-gook . 
it grows tiresome and monotonous . 
yes , stone has pulled a brian depalma . 
matters of importance are pushed aside right from the get-go . 
tony d'amato ( al pacino ) , coach of the struggling miami sharks , finds his team stuck in a losing rut . 
aging quarterback cap rooney ( dennis quaid ) appears to be losing his touch , and d'amato can't seem to ignite any passion in his squad . 
when cap is injured on the field , and after a patch of unlikely events occur , third-string qb willie beaman ( jamie foxx ) is brought into the game . 
once in the huddle ( and this becomes an in-game ritual ) , beaman horks all over the field . 
nerves , you see . 
eventually though , the ancy youngster wins the game for his teammates , sparking his rise to fame in the football world - the endorsements , the music videos , etc . - and stone straps us in for the jolting ride of behind-the-scenes stress and fury that the business is apparently like . 
and i believe it . 
there is some intriguing insight posed , but in the big scheme of things , stone fumbles the ball . 
the problem with the director's visual approach is this : he uses extravagant editing devices when a more conventional approach would have been appropriate . 
football is an exciting game to watch , but stone seems to think dizzying the audience with an assault on the senses will only add to the adrenaline rush . 
i guess he is mistaken . 
`any given sunday' is a visual kaleidoscope that leaves the audience in a frustrated stupor more frequently than it excites them . 
many football fans ( including one i attended with ) are liable to be disappointed with the `ultra-stylish' way stone has decided to present the game . 
in return , a three-star film becomes unfortunately degraded due to the director's tampering . 
in welcome scenes when the visual pummeling comes to a break , this actually shows decent character development and interaction . 
for instance , heated returns between d'amato and feisty young owner christina pagniacci ( cameron diaz ) are enjoyable to watch . 
there is also a solid performance from jamie foxx , who experiments with great success in his first trek into dramatic territory . 
the stellar supporting cast includes matthew modine , aaron eckhart , lauren holly , ann-margret and charlton heston ( in an extraordinarily brief appearance ) . 
unfortunately , too many big names are wasted - a typical demise for a film with such a large and experienced cast . 
pacino makes some interesting progress with his character . 
you begin to identify with coach d'amato and the morals he is striving for . . . . 
but i often felt he was just another play thing stone could weave in and out of his editing dynamics . 
`any given sunday' is a watchable but disappointing sports film in which plot and characters take a back seat to excessive filmmaking technique . 
and a very distant back seat , at that .
1	1	dark city is such a rare treat : it ? s a stunning , hyperkinetic vision of a place where our reality is fused with noir , science fiction and the darkest nights in manhattan and london . 
to boot , it is accompanied by an intense , well written and thoughtful story . 
movies of this caliber and idea aren ? t made too often , and it ? s unfortunate that i waited this long to see it . 
alex proyas , who ? s previous film the crow looked good but couldn ? t cover up the terrible acting or story , here shows a near masterpiece ; a combination of metropolis , edward hopper and phillip marlowe , fused seemlessly . 
at times it moves beyond film into artwork . 
it is the story of ? strangers ? , aliens from another planet ( and we know they ? re aliens because they shave their heads and wear overcoats ? one of the detractions of the film ) who experiment on humans to discover what makes them live , what makes up our ? soul ? . 
these aliens are superior to humans because they have mastered the ? ultimate technology ? of shaping matter with their mind , called ? tuning . 
they are aided by a human scientist , played by kiefer sutherland , who has ? betrayed his kind ? and at the start of the film watches as the entire city stops at exactly midnight . 
during this time , john murdoch , played swiftly by rufus sewell , wakes in a bathtub in a room with a swinging overhead light ( a terrific visual effect - not only is murdoch confused , but so is the audience ) . 
without a memory and a strange guilt that he may be a killer , he receives a phone call to flee , as the strangers are after him . 
i don ? t want to proceed to much further with the explanation of the story ; one of the pleasures of the film is watching it develop , in a way regaining murdoch ? s ? identity ? along with him . 
it ? s a pleasure to watch the characters develop through the cinematography . 
murdoch ? s wife , anna , is introduced through a stunning beam of light : she is a lounge singer who sings into a bright spotlight . 
shadows , outlines of men in hats watch , as she gently curves through the shine . 
we see the outline of her body from behind , an hourglass , as she sings a slow , rhythmic song . 
a great entrance . 
however , a film such as this is only successful if the morals and themes behind it are strong enough to leave the viewer satisfied . 
the city is nice to look at , but if it ? s a poor story then it ? s not worth watching . 
blade runner was popular not only because it ? s visuals , but it ? s story and themes were thought out and provoked strong response from the audience . 
it is discussed it and argued , therefore a success . 
other science fiction films of recent times , such as the fifth element , are nice to look at , but are dropped and forgotten because the cookie cutter moral behind them is so flimsy . 
we ? re left with ? love conquers all ? after finishing the fifth element . 
dark city is not so easily explained away . 
as the strangers discovered , locating the human soul and discovering what makes us survive is not such an easy task . 
where is reality ? 
dark city is certainly the best science fiction film of the 90 ? s , and ranks along with the best made in the 80s , such as blade runner and the two aliens films . 
perhaps it ? s the best of the both decades ; it had the darkness of the aliens films , as well as the visuals and compelling story of blade runner , but moved beyond , i think , because the themes behind it were much stronger . 
anyone who wants to make an argument for better science fiction films please feel free to write , i ? d love to hear it .
0	1	" america's sweethearts " has an intriguing premise and a great cast , but it isn't nearly as edgy or funny as it should be . 
almost all the problems with the project can be traced back to co-script writer billy crystal , who shows the same lack of discipline with the screenplay that he typically displays while co-hosting " comic relief " charity shows with robin williams and whoopi goldberg ( two other paragons of self-indulgence ) . 
crystal ignores a simple , but crucial , rule : for a screwball comedy to work , the characters must be placed into a rigid social setting , because only in that context will their unorthodox antics be humorous . 
 " america's sweethearts " takes place at a press junket , where decorum must be maintained in front of the reporters . 
it's a promising set-up , but the screenplay quickly blows off the rules , thus dissipating the tension of the situation . 
by the end of the film , all the lead performers participate in a huge fight with a room full of journalists looking on , but their outbursts are only mildly amusing because the structure has been destroyed . 
john cusack and catherine zeta-jones play eddie thomas and gwen harrison , a beloved acting duo whose marriage hit the skids when gwen began seeing hector ( hank azaria ) , a spanish actor with an ego almost as pronounced as his lisp . 
of the last nine films eddie and gwen made together , six crossed the $100 million mark , but the prospects for their final effort , a space opus titled " time over time , " are far from rosy . 
while eddie has spent many months in a new age rest clinic fretting over the breakup , gwen's solo films have tanked . 
to make matter worse , the director of the movie ( christopher walken ) , a " visionary " who purchased the unabomber's cabin and had it moved to his backyard , is withholding the film from the studio , insisting that the first screening be held at the junket . 
desperate to win over the press , the studio elects to hire lee ( billy crystal ) , a recently fired publicist , to salvage the situation . 
lee hopes to turn lemons into lemonade by convincing eddie and gwen to pretend to be on the road to reconciliation . 
he enlists the help of kiki ( julia roberts ) , gwen's sister , personal assistant and whipping girl . 
what lee doesn't know is that kiki is in love with eddie , a fact that could temper her effectiveness . 
press junkets are a haven for control freaks . 
studios fly journalists in from around the world and put them up in a plush hotel , with food and drink always at hand . 
generally , on the evening of their arrival , writers are bussed to see the featured film , then ferreted straight back to the hotel . 
the next day , writers go to the studio suites and assemble in groups of five or six for roundtable interviews . 
every 30 minutes or so , a producer , director , writer or actor is brought into the room for a few minutes of questions , with a publicist hovering in the corner to keep an eye on things . 
the atmosphere is one of cordial oppression ? writers are free to ask what they want , but understand that if the studio dislikes a question , they may not be invited to future junkets . 
representatives from tv stations face even more restrictions . 
they get roughly five minutes to interview each member of the cast and crew , with the studio filming the exchanges . 
the " reporters " are notorious for tossing softball questions as they suck up to the stars , but to play it safe , the studios stand ready to erase the tapes if anything unpleasant occurs . 
placing two spoiled actors in a setting where image is everything is inspired , but the screenplay undermines the conceit . 
the junket is moved from the handsome , but highly confining , four seasons hotel to a plush resort near las vegas . 
for most of the film , the movie stars run around the sprawling grounds , completely safe from the eyes of the press . 
when they do deal with journalists , the " it is imperative that you be on your best behavior in front of the reporters " premise is de-clawed . 
gwen and eddie insult each other while the tv cameras roll , they scream at each other in a restaurant filled with the media and , at the screening of the movie , everyone connected with the film goes nuts , all without any repercussions . 
lee certainly isn't bothered by any of the infantile outbursts ; in fact , he makes arrangements for footage of even more inappropriate behavior to be delivered to the tabloids . 
is the studio angry about his handling of the combative actors ? 
hell no ? they feel lee is a genius for garnering so much publicity for the movie . 
all of which underscores how billy crystal and co-writer peter tolan screwed up their own premise : the comedy in " america's sweethearts " is based on barely-in-control people trying to contain themselves in the presence of reporters , except that it doesn't matter because any publicity is good publicity . 
and thus the very set-up for the film implodes , leaving smoke and dust in place of laughter . 
so what about the cast ? 
julia roberts , at her best playing the underdog , is utterly charming here , although i could have lived without flashbacks that exist solely as an excuse to show her in a fat suit ( and not a very convincing one , by the way ) . 
catherine zeta-jones makes a believable brat and john cusack fleshes out his obsessed character enough to make him vaguely sympathetic . 
by casting himself as the publicist , billy crystal allows himself to do roughly the same thing he does on " comic relief " - stay on the sidelines of the action while tossing off cornball jokes and snarky remarks . 
in supporting roles , hank azaria wears out his welcome fast with broad gestures and a spanish accent that speedy gonzales would have deemed " too broad . " 
seth green is amusing as a toadie , stanley tucci is very good as a ruthless studio head and christopher walken plays the eccentric director with suitable flair , though he has little to work with . 
come to think of it , " little to work with " is the operative phrase for this movie . 
as a hollywood satire , " america's sweethearts " is toothless . 
as a romance , it is at best a minor pleasure . 
such a good cast , such a waste of their efforts . 
had it not been taken long ago , a better title for the film would have been " much ado about nothing . "
0	1	susan granger's review of " the musketeer " ( universal pictures ) 
hollywood launches another assault on classic literature with this $50 million adaptation of alexandre dumas's novel that's strong on action but weak on drama , fusing hong kong martial arts with 17th century swordplay . 
the story chronicles the adventures of the dashing d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) as he leaves his village of gascogne , headed for paris , to join king louis xiii's elite guard , the royal musketeers , and to search for the man who killed his parents 14 years earlier . 
this puts him in conflict with the formidable febre ( tim roth ) , vicious henchman for conniving cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) . 
the traditional musketeer trio - aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steve speirs ) - don't offer much help so he turns to the feisty francesca ( mena suvari ) , chambermaid to the queen of france ( catherine deneuve ) . 
scripter gene quintano and director-cinematographer peter hyams are primarily interested in the derring-do , as evidenced by choreographer xin-xin xiong's elaborate - but not original - stunts , including a fast-paced stagecoach chase , a tavern brawl on rolling barrels , high-wire acrobatics with the combatants dangling from ropes , and a ladder-fight sequence . 
filmed in southern france , the scenery , sets and costumes are spectacular , but the lighting is too dark and editing is filled with choppy , restless mtv'ish cuts . 
as the swashbuckling d'artagnan , bland calvin klein model justin chambers buckles where he should be swashing , totally lacking on-screen charisma , not to mention acting skill . 
mena suvari , so impressive in " american beauty , " seems like a contemporary interloper in the royal court . 
on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the musketeer " is a cinematic but shallow 3 . 
 " all for one and one for all " ? 
not this time 'round .
